Book Title : Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
Chapter 1 The Boy Who Lived
The book begins by introducing Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, and their baby son Dudley. They live on Privet Drive and try to act as normal as possible. However, we soon learn that the Dursleys are hiding something.What they're hiding is the Potter family; Mrs. Potter is Mrs. Dursley's sister, and the Dursleys try to pretend the Potters don't exist.The narrator says that they don't realize how unusual this particular day is going to be – they don't see an owl fly past the window. But as Mr. Dursley leaves for work, he thinks he sees a cat reading a map, just for a second.Mr. Dursley tries to forget about it, but then notices that there are people all around wearing cloaks. He thinks it's weird, and puts his mind towards work. At work that day, he doesn't look out the window, so he doesn't see the massive groups of owls flying about, which would strike anyone else as unusual.
During his lunch break, he ventures outside and sees a bunch of people in cloaks again. He overhears them talking about the Potters and gets really freaked out.
He almost calls his wife to talk about it, but then tries to convince himself that the cloak people probably weren't talking about his relatives.On his way out of the office that evening, he bumps into a man wearing a violet cloak. The man tells him that You-Know-Who is gone and calls Dursley a Muggle. Mr. Dursley doesn't understand any of this, but it freaks him out all the same. When he gets home he sees that same cat outside his house.That evening, he and his wife act normally. They hear on the news that the country is overcome with owls and that the sky is full of shooting stars.Mr. Dursley asks his wife about the Potters, because he thinks they might be connected with all the weird happenings, but she hasn't heard from them. As they're going to bed, he sees that cat outside again. He falls asleep thinking about how the Potters shouldn't bother them.
Outside, the cat waits until almost midnight, when a thin old man in a cloak appears: Albus Dumbledore.Dumbledore takes something out of his pocket, which looks like a cigarette lighter. He uses it to put out all the lights on the street. Then he walks over to the cat, which has transformed into Professor McGonagall. He knew it was her even when she was still a cat.He asks her why she wasn't getting happy with the others. She says that she was worried about how risky everyone was acting and that the Muggles might notice something.Dumbledore says it's been eleven years since they felt like this. They talk about how the Muggles can't find out about them, before confirming that You-Know-Who is definitely out of the picture.Dumbledore eats lemon drops and says they should call You-Know-Who by his real name, Voldemort.McGonagall says he's the only one who can say that, because Voldemort's only ever been scared by Dumbledore. She wants to talk about what really happened and how he was actually defeated.
She asks about the rumor that the Potters are dead, but their little boy, Harry, is still alive. Dumbledore confirms that it's true.McGonagall says that Voldemort was defeated when he tried to tried to kill Harry and couldn't – that it stopped his power from working somehow.Dumbledore says they'll never know how it happened, checks his mysterious watch, and says Hagrid's late. He says they're going to leave Harry with his family, the Dursleys, and McGonagall says they're despicable. Dumbledore counters that they're the only family Harry has left, and he'll be safest with them, even though they're unlike the magicians and his parents. He's written them a letter to explain.McGonagall tells him that Harry's going to be a superstar, and Dumbledore says it's better for him to grow up modest and humble.
They're interrupted by Hagrid's arrival on a motorcycle. Hagrid is a gigantic man, but he's carrying baby Harry very carefully.Harry is a tiny, black-haired baby with a lightning-shaped scar on his forehead.Hagrid says goodbye to the baby and starts crying.Dumbledore leaves Harry on the doorstep with a letter. The three magic people look really sad. As they vanish into the night, Dumbledore wishes him good luck.The baby sleeps, as magic people think of him and toast his welfare.

Chapter 2The Vanishing Glass
It's about ten years later, and the Dursleys' home looks the same. The Dursleys treat their son Dudley way better than they do Harry, who sleeps in a cupboard under the stairs.Harry's aunt Petunia wakes him up from a dream he remembers having before, about a motorcycle that flies. She tells him to get cracking and make breakfast for Dudley's birthday.The house is full of presents for Dudley, who's fat and lazy. Harry, in contrast, is tiny and thin, and wears glasses. He doesn't know much how he got the scar on his forehead, beyond his aunt telling him he got it in the car crash that killed his parents.Harry makes eggs for the Dursleys, who all meet in the kitchen. Dudley throws a fit because he only sees 36 presents; his parents have to appease him by promising him other presents later.Their neighbor, Mrs. Figg, calls and says she can't watch Harry for the day. It means that Harry's going to get to go with the Dursleys on this birthday outing, instead of being left behind as he usually is. Although Dudley pretends to cry in the hope of keeping Harry from joining them on their trip to the zoo, the Dursleys are worried about leaving Harry alone in the house. He gets to go with them and Dudley's friend's family to the zoo.Mr. Dursley warns Harry not to do anything suspicious at the zoo, and Harry promises he won't. Sometimes, though, suspicious stuff just happens, and there's nothing Harry can do about it. For example, when Petunia cut off Harry's hair, it grew back overnight, and when she tried to make him wear one of Dudley's old sweaters, it gets smaller and smaller until he can't even put it on. Once he found himself on the school roof when he was outrunning Dudley and his friends, but can't figure out how he got up there in the first place.On their drive to the zoo, Harry shares his dream about the flying motorcycle. Mr. Dursley yells at him that that's impossible.At the zoo, Dudley and his friend get better treats than Harry, and Harry stays slightly away from them so that they won't bother him.Everything's going fine through lunch, until they get to the reptile house. Dudley calls the largest snake boring, because it's just sleeping. Harry goes over to look at it after Dudley moves away.The snake looks up and winks at Harry, and they have a conversation. Harry asks it where it's from, and the snake points to the sign that says Brazil. The snake's never been to Brazil, though, because it was born in captivity.Someone yells for Dudley and Mr. Dursley to come look at the snake, and in his rush to get over, Dudley pushes Harry out of the way. Piers and Dudley are looking at the snake through the glass when suddenly the glass vanishes. The snake escapes and makes a run for it.After the panic at the zoo subsides, they all leave, and Piers says that Harry was talking to the snake. That's enough for Mr. Dursley to get really angry and punish Harry by sending him to his "room" with no food.Later, Harry's lying down and thinking in the dark about how it's been so awful to live with the Dursleys. He doesn't remember much about how his parents died, except for a strange green light. He misses them and has fantasies about escaping from the Dursleys. Sometimes strangers seem to know him, but they always disappear.

Chapter 3 The Letters from No One
Harry's punished because of the escaping snake through the rest of the school year. Even though it's summer, he's still tormented by Dudley and all of his friends from school. The bullies like to chase Harry and are always trying to hunt him down. Harry can't wait for the fall, when he'll start at a different school from Dudley. Dudley will be going to Mr. Dursley's old private school, while Harry's going to be attending the local public school.Mrs. Dursley takes Dudley to buy his school uniform, and the Dursleys act super proud of Dudley; Harry thinks it's hilarious.The next day, he sees Mrs. Dursley dyeing some of Dudley's old clothes gray for him to wear at school, and worries about how mock-able he'll look.They're not paying much attention to him when the mail arrives.For the first time ever, the mail includes something for Harry. The letter is on beautiful paper, addressed to him in his bedroom, and has a great wax seal.He delivers the rest of the mail to the Dursleys, and is starting to open his letter, when Mr. Dursley snatches it from him and refuses to give it back. When he sees what's written there, he totally freaks out and shows it to his wife. Despite Harry asking for his letter, which belongs to him, the Dursleys won't give it back. He and Dudley squabble and get kicked out of the room.They listen in and hear the Dursleys worrying that they're being spied on and deciding to ignore the letter. Mr. Dursley says he won't have it.Later that day, Mr. Dursley tells Harry he's burned the letter, but thinks he should move into Dudley's second bedroom instead of sleeping under the stairs.While Harry would usually have been so excited to get out of his cupboard, all he can think about is his missing letter.The next day, Dudley can't believe that Harry's still in his second bedroom. He goes to get the mail and finds another letter for Harry. Harry and Mr. Dursley make a mad dash for the letter and they all tussle until Mr. Dursley grabs the letter. He sends Harry to his room. Although Harry's upset not to have this letter, he hopes whoever's sending them will keep doing so.Harry gets up really early the next morning and sneaks downstairs. He wants to meet the postman and get the mail before everyone else does. As he moves to the door he steps on something that screams. He realizes his uncle got there first to keep him from getting the mail. Mr. Dursley tells him to go make tea. While he's gone, the mail arrives.There are three letters addressed to Harry, and Mr. Dursley tears them all up, before nailing the mail slot shut.The next day, twelve letters arrive for Harry; the day after that, 24 letters come.The day after that, Sunday, Mr. Dursley is relieved because the mail isn't scheduled. But letters start flying into the house, coming through the chimney and fireplace. He freaks out and orders everyone to pack.They all rush to the car and drive around aimlessly for a whole day, before stopping at some hotel outside a city.The next morning, the hotel's owner tries to deliver a letter to Harry, but Mr. Dursley keeps him from getting it. They go on the move again, seemingly without a direction or destination. Harry realizes the next day will be his eleventh birthday.Mr. Dursley directs them to an isolated shack, surrounded by water. It's cold and miserable, and a storm rages around outside. Mr. Dursley is sure they won't get any letters there.The Dursleys divide the available blankets and beds amongst the three of them. Harry's left to sleep on the floor with only a small coverlet. He can't fall asleep and thinks about how his birthday is coming.At midnight, as it turns into Harry's birthday, there's a tremendously loud knocking at the door.

Chapter 4 The Keeper of the Keys
The knocking wakes them all up. Mr. Dursley aims a gun at the door and yells. The door's smashed in by a giant man, who stomps in, asks for a cup of tea, and tells Dudley to scoot over. Then he says hello to Harry and tells him he looks like his parents.Mr. Dursley tells him to leave. The giant just tells him to zip it and breaks Dursley's gun. Then he wishes Harry a happy birthday, and even gives him a cake.He says he's Hagrid, groundskeeper at Hogwarts. He lights a real fire in the fireplace and produces all the elements for a solid meal out of his pockets. Everyone else has had little to eat and is really hungry, but Mr. Dursley says they shouldn't eat anything he tries to give them.Harry eats and asks Hagrid more about who he is. Hagrid says he should know about Hogwarts. When Harry says he doesn't, Hagrid is shocked and amazed.He yells at the Dursleys, saying that it was one thing that Harry couldn't get his letters, but to keep him from knowing about Hogwarts was really bad.When Hagrid finds out that Harry doesn't know anything about his parents, he gets even angrier with the Dursleys, who are very frightened.Hagrid reveals to Harry that his parents inhabited a separate world, where they were famous, and that Harry's famous too. Mr. Dursley tries to keep Hagrid from saying any more, but of course it doesn't work. Hagrid's even angrier when he finds out that the Dursleys never gave Harry the letter Dumbledore left with him.He tells Harry he's a wizard, and probably will be a good one when he receives some training. He finally gives Harry his letter.Harry reads a letter on stationary from the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, signed by Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall. The letter says Harry's been accepted to the school and gives him a list of supplies to get; it also says he should confirm his acceptance with an owl by the end of July.When Harry asks what it means by owl, Hagrid remembers something, and pulls an owl out of his coat. He writes a short letter to Dumbledore, saying he's given Harry his letter, gives this new letter to the owl, and releases it into the storm.Mr. Dursley says Harry's not leaving, but Hagrid says Muggles can't stop it. Harry asks what Muggles are, and Hagrid says they're non-magic people.Harry asks whether the Dursleys knew he was magic. Mrs. Dursley lets loose, yelling that he's just like her freaky abnormal sister and it's her sister's own fault she got blown up.Blown up? Harry is shocked because he always thought his parents died in a car crash.Hagrid's even angrier, if possible, and says Harry of all people should know the story of what really happened.
Hagrid says he's not really the right person to tell Harry, but someone should, so… He says a wizard in their world, named Voldemort, went bad twenty years ago in a quest for power. He killed anyone who went against him. The only safe place in the world was Hogwarts. Voldemort visited their house ten years ago when Harry was just a baby. The evil wizard was determined to either get Harry's parents to join him, or to destroy them.This makes Hagrid cry. He continues that Voldemort killed Harry's parents. Voldemort tried to kill Harry too, but couldn't. The scar on Harry's forehead is from an evil curse Voldemort tried to put on him. Harry's famous because he's the only person who ever survived when Voldemort wanted him dead.Mr. Dursley says this is all BS, but Hagrid cuts him off.Harry asks what happened to Voldemort, and Hagrid says they don't know – no one's seen or heard from him in ten years. They're not sure if he died, lost power, or what. All they know is that somehow Harry helped defeat him.Harry doesn't understand how he could really be a wizard. Hagrid tells him that those weird things that kept happening, which he couldn't explain, were proof of his talent.Mr. Dursley says he's not going to a stupid school like Hogwarts, and he's not paying for it.Hagrid is furious that Mr. Dursley would insult Hogwarts and Dumbledore. He says Harry's been signed up since he was born. In his anger, Hagrid casts a spell that gives Dudley a pig's tail.The three Dursleys are so frightened by this that they run to the other room and hide.Hagrid asks Harry to keep that a secret, since he's not really supposed to do magic. He reveals that he went to Hogwarts, but was expelled. He tells Harry to go to sleep, because they have a lot of work to do the next day.

Chapter 5 Diagon Alley
The next morning, when Harry wakes up, he tells himself that it was all a dream about a giant arriving and revealing that he was a wizard. He hears a tapping and thinks it's his aunt. He wishes the dream were real, opens his eyes, and finds himself in the desolate room with Hagrid.An owl arrives carrying a newspaper; it drops off the newspaper and starts pecking at Hagrid's coat.Hagrid tells Harry the owl needs to be paid and to give it money from the coat's pockets. Harry finds wizarding money and pays in Knuts.Hagrid says that they have to get going to buy Harry's school supplies, and Harry gets worried about not having enough money for school, especially since Mr. Dursley said he wouldn't finance it.Hagrid reassures Harry, telling him that his parents left him money. It's all kept safe in the Gringotts bank. This is a goblin bank, and Hagrid says Gringotts and Hogwarts are the most secure places in the world. Dumbledore's given Hagrid a task to accomplish there.Harry and Hagrid leave the hut, and get in the dilapidated boat the Dursleys rowed over in. Hagrid admits he flew there, but isn't really supposed to be doing magic. They agree to keep it a secret if Hagrid helps the boat go a little faster.On their boat ride, Hagrid tells Harry that the bank is protected by spells and dragons. Hagrid also explains about the Ministry of Magic – its primary purpose is to keep wizardry and magic secret.After they make it to shore, they get a lot of weird looks as they go to catch a train to London. Hagrid confesses he'd like a dragon of his own.On the train, Harry reviews the list of supplies. He'll need a uniform, including robes, a hat, and cloak, and several textbooks. He'll also need a wand and some other magic stuff.When they get to London, Harry's still a little confused about how they'll be able to buy these supplies, but Hagrid knows where to go. Harry's worried until they get to a pub called the Leaky Cauldron. He realizes that it doesn't seem as though anyone else can see it at all.Inside when Harry and Hagrid walk in, everyone stops and stares. They welcome Harry and every single person wants to shake his hand.
One of the people Harry meets is Professor Quirrell. Quirrell has a terrible stutter and seems super frightened. He's the new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor.Finally, Hagrid extracts them, saying they need to go shopping, and they go into the alley behind the Leaky Cauldron. He explains to Harry that Quirrell is super smart, but hasn't been the same since he did fieldwork and had some bad experiences.Hagrid taps on a brick wall, which opens, and the two go through it into Diagon Alley as the wall closes behind them.They pass an interesting-looking Cauldron shop, but Hagrid says they need to get Harry some cash before they can do any damage. They walk past an Owl Emporium, a broomstick store, and some other interesting stuff before they get to the bank.They walk under door with a poem inscribed on it that warns against stealing.Inside, goblins are everywhere, working.Hagrid produces a key (after much searching) to Harry's safe and a letter from Dumbledore about getting something out of a specific vault.The goblin Griphook is summoned to lead Harry and Hagrid inside the bank. Hagrid says he absolutely can't reveal what Dumbledore's sent him to the bank to get.
They get in a railway cart; it takes them through a bunch of underground passages and also past an underground lake.Harry's vault is full of magic money. He realizes the Dursleys couldn't have known about it. Hagrid helps him pick some out, Galleons, Sickles, and Knuts.Then they go to the other vault, passing over a ravine. This vault unlocks by goblin touch. It's empty except for a small parcel, which Hagrid scoops up. They go back upstairs and out of the bank.
Harry's kind of overwhelmed by how much money he has. Hagrid's feeling sick from riding in the goblin railway cart. He goes back to the Leaky Cauldron for a drink and sends Harry to Madame Malkin's robe shop.Madame Malkin helps him get fitted into Hogwarts robes next to another boy also going to Hogwarts. The boy makes Harry think of Dudley; he talks about his parents and having a broom, then mentions Quidditch and the different Houses at Hogwarts. Harry doesn't know what he's talking about.Hagrid appears outside and the boy criticizes him. Harry stands up for him, and the boy asks about his parents. When Harry says they're dead, the boy doesn't seem apologetic, but just asks if they were "[their] kind." He says Hogwarts should be kept for wizarding races and asks Harry his name. Before Harry can answer, Madame Malkin says he's done.Hagrid brings Harry ice cream. They shop for quills while Harry asks Hagrid about Quidditch. Hagrid says it's difficult to say what it is, but it's similar to football played with broomsticks. And extra balls.Hagrid says there are four houses at Hogwarts, including Hufflepuff and Slytherin, and that You-Know-Who was a Slytherin.They go to Flourish and Blotts to buy his books. Hagrid reminds Harry you're not supposed to work magic around Muggles. Then they buy cauldrons and scales, and they also go to the Apothecary's.
Hagrid tells Harry he'll get him an Owl for a birthday present. Harry's overwhelmed and gets a lovely snowy owl.Then they go to Ollivanders for his wand.
The wand shop is tiny and seems extra magical. Mr. Ollivander remembers Harry's parents and the kinds of wands they chose. He knows the wand that caused Harry's scar, and he remembers the wand he sold to Hagrid – which shouldn't be used any more, since Hagrid was expelled. (But it might be in Hagrid's umbrella.)
Mr. Ollivander measures Harry all over, and then Harry tries a bunch of different wands. None of them seem to work. Finally he tries one made of holly and phoenix feather, which feels magical in his hand.Mr. Ollivander calls it "curious," though, and says that it's linked to the wand that caused Harry's scar. He says that Harry may do great things. Harry's kind of creeped out by this, but they pay and leave.They go back to the Leaky Cauldron and then into regular, non-magic London. They get a snack before Harry's train comes. Harry thinks it was a great birthday, but is also worried. People are treating him like he's "special" and famous, but he doesn't understand any of it.Hagrid reassures him, saying he'll learn and figure it all out at Hogwarts; then, he puts him on a train back to the Dursleys', and says he'll see him on September 1st for the start of term at Hogwarts.

Chapter 6 The Journey from Platform Nine and Three-quarters
Harry patiently waits for the month with the Dursleys to be over so he can get to Hogwarts. They ignore him most of the time. He hangs out with his owl, Hedwig, and reads for school.The day before he has to leave, he asks the Dursleys to take him to the train station in London. They grudgingly agree, but when he tells them he has to take a train leaving from platform nine and three-quarters, they just laugh.Mr. Dursley says all the wizards are nuts, but they'll take Harry to London because they're going anyway, to get Dudley's tail taken off.The next day, Harry wakes up really early, because he's so excited. He double checks he's got everything he needs for Hogwarts and is more than ready to leave long before the Dursleys are.They get to the station at 10:30, and the train is supposed to leave at 11. The Dursleys help Harry to get his baggage inside, and then laugh at him because there's nothing between platforms nine and ten. Then they abandon him there.Harry asks a guard for help, but the guard gets angry with him because he doesn't know how to explain where he's going. He begins to panic when he overhears some people talking about Muggles.He follows them: it's a mother and four sons and a daughter, all redheads. Harry watches as the three older boys, called Percy, Fred, and George, run at the wall that separates the platforms and disappear.
Harry asks the woman how to do it; she kindly explains that you have to just run at the barrier and you'll go through it. The woman introduces him to her son, Ron. She tells Harry to go first.Harry's scared, so he walks towards the barrier and then starts running – and then he's through. He sees a train, leaving at 11, on the right platform – he made it! He finds himself surrounded by magical people with owls and equipment just like he has.Harry heads towards the end of the train looking for space, but has trouble maneuvering all his bags. The redheaded boys Fred and George (twins) come to help him. As they're all getting settled, the others realize that he's Harry Potter. Harry watches as the redheads all get off the train to say goodbye to their mother. Their older brother, Percy, is excited because he's going to be a prefect. The others make fun of him. They also poke fun at Ron, because he'll be new to Hogwarts.The boys tell their mom they met Harry on the train. She tells them to not bother him, but to treat him like a regular person. They jump on the train just as it's leaving.Ron comes into Harry's compartment and asks if he can sit with him. The twins poke their heads in, introduce themselves as Weasleys, and go looking for Lee Jackson.Ron asks if Harry's actually Harry Potter, and Harry shows him his scar. Harry says he doesn't have any memories of You-Know-Who.Harry asks Ron about what it's like to be in a wizard family, and Ron explains that it's tough being the fifth brother in a line of wizards. He only gets hand-me-downs, like Percy's old rat Scabbers.It sounds like the Weasleys don't have a ton of money. Harry explains that he's only just got a hold of them. As he's talking, he says Voldemort's name, and Ron is shocked – people aren't supposed to say it. Harry thinks it's just proof of how much he's got to learn.The train keeps going and a woman with snacks stops by their compartment. Ron doesn't buy anything, but Harry is excited to buy candy. The woman doesn't have ordinary candy, though – just all kinds of magic candy. He buys some of everything.Ron's unpacking some homemade sandwiches, but Harry convinces him to share some of the magic candy. It's the first time he got to share.
They start eating some Chocolate Frogs, and Ron explains that they come with collectable cards of magic folks. Harry gets one with Dumbledore. He learns that people don't always stay still in magic pictures – they move around and leave the frames.Soon Harry's collected a bunch of wizard pictures. He also tries Every Flavor Beans, which don't all taste good.As they travel, they move from fields to woods. A boy that Harry had seen earlier comes in briefly looking for his lost toad.Ron says a toad would be better than his rat, who won't change color or anything – he's about to show Harry when the boy comes back with a girl, who calls him Neville and asks about the toad.She asks Ron to show them some magic. Ron tries to turn the rat but it doesn't work.The girl says the spells she's tried have worked. Even though she's from a non-magic family, she's learned a lot already. She introduces herself as Hermione Granger.Ron and Harry introduce themselves. Hermione says Harry's famous and in a bunch of magic books.
She asks what houses they want to be in and says she hopes to be in Gryffindor. Then she and Neville leave in pursuit of the toad.Ron says he hopes they're not in the same house. He tells Harry that his whole family has been Gryffindors – which is a lot of pressure.Ron's telling Harry about his other brothers – one works for Gringotts, which was recently robbed. Harry's shocked, even more so when he hears that whoever it was hasn't been caught yet.Harry's worried, but gets distracted when Ron brings up Quidditch and explains all its elements to him.Three boys, one of whom is from the robe shop, interrupt them. He asks Harry if he's Harry Potter and introduces himself as Draco Malfoy. His friends are Crabbe and Goyle.Malfoy sneers at Ron, making fun of his family. He tells Harry that he should be his friend instead. Harry puts him off and sides with Ron, so Malfoy insults his parents too. They're about to fight when Scabbers bites Goyle, and Malfoy and his friends run off.Hermione returns, and they commiserate over the rat, which seems to be unconscious.They talk about Malfoy; his family was on the Dark side, and while they've come back, not everyone believes they've reformed.
Hermione says they should put on their robes, because they're almost there, and then she leaves.Ron and Harry get ready, as an announcement says to leave baggage on the train to be collected.They all get off the train and see Hagrid, who tells all the first years to go with him.They see a lake, and across it is a mountain with a castle on top.They get in boats to cross the lake, four at a time. Harry, Ron, Neville, and Hermione go together.The boats all leave at the same time and go across the lake towards the castle. When they get to the other side, Hagrid finds Neville's toad. Then, he knocks on the door.

Chapter 7 The Sorting Hat
Professor McGonagall meets them and takes them through a huge stone and marble entryway into a tiny waiting room. She welcomes them and says that before they join the banquet, they will be sorted into their houses, which will be like their families inside Hogwarts.She says each of the houses – Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin – has great qualities and people.All year, the good stuff they do will earn their houses points, and the bad stuff will lose points. Each year is a competition to win the House cup.McGonagall says they'll be Sorted soon and that they should get ready. Then she leaves.Ron and Harry are worried about being Sorted in front of everyone, and Harry is really nervous.They hear screams and turn around to see ghosts gliding through the room. The ghosts seem preoccupied with their own dramas but welcome the students and talk of their own houses.McGonagall comes back and tells them to follow her to the Great Hall, where they see all the other students and teachers. She puts out a stool and an old wizard hat.The hat starts to sing a song, saying that they should put it on and it will tell them what houses to go in.Ron's relieved, but Harry's still nervous.
McGonagall says they will be called up one at a time, and she begins calling students in alphabetical order. As the students are Sorted, Harry gets more and more nervous.Hermione goes, and is put in Gryffindor, as is Neville. Malfoy gets put in Slytherin.Finally, it's Harry's turn. Everyone starts gossiping immediately at the mention of his name.The hat talks to Harry about where he should go, and he thinks, "Not Slytherin, not Slytherin" (7.68), so the hat puts him in Gryffindor.
Harry relaxes a little as he joins the Gryffindors and looks around. He sees Hagrid at the high table with Dumbledore and Quirrell. He sits by one of the ghosts.Ron's one of the last people sorted and is super relieved to be a Gryffindor.Harry realizes he's hungry.Dumbledore welcomes them all with a silly speech, and Percy tells Harry Dumbledore's the greatest wizard ever.
The table is suddenly covered with magical food, everything Harry likes. He's never been able to choose what or how much to eat before, and it's really exciting.As he eats, he talks with the ghost, who says he can't eat anymore. Ron recognizes him as Nearly Headless Nick. Nick tells them how he became Nearly Headless and says he hopes they'll get the house cup.Dessert is served and the first-years talk about their families. Sean is part Muggle, and Neville was raised by his magic grandmother, even though everyone in his family was worried he wouldn't be magic enough to qualify for Hogwarts.Percy and Hermione are talking about studying and subjects.Harry feels tired. He looks up at the teachers' table and sees Quirrell talking to someone else. When the man looks at Harry, he feels a pain in his scar. He asks about him and finds out that's Snape, the Potions Master.Dumbledore concludes the meal with another speech. No one's allowed on the grounds, they shouldn't use magic in the halls, they can try out for Quidditch teams in week two, and they must avoid "the third-floor corridor on the right-hand side" (7.118).Then, they all sing the school song, each of them to their own melody, and then are dismissed.They separate by houses and go to their individual parts of the Castle.The Gryffindors run into Peeves, the poltergeist, and get past him with difficulty. They end up by a painting of a fat lady who asks for their password. Percy gives it and they're let into their dormitory. They end up in a cozy series of rooms and are separated by gender.Harry and Ron are so tired they go to sleep almost immediately. Harry has a terrible dream about Quirrell trying to put him in Slytherin and Malfoy turning into Snape, but he doesn't remember it the next day.

Chapter 8 The Potions Master
Once classes start, everyone's staring at and talking about Harry all the time. He's still just trying to figure out where everything is and how to navigate all the staircases. Sometimes parts of Hogwarts seem to appear in other parts, and the ghosts are always appearing and being distracting.The caretaker, Filch, is just as bad – he comes upon Harry and Ron when they're lost and thinks they're trying to get into the third-floor. Quirrell gets them out of it, though.Filch has a creepy cat named Mrs. Norris, and no one likes either of them.The classes are fun but way more work than Harry expected. They have Herbology, History of Magic, and Charms, which is taught by a ghost. Transfiguration, taught by McGonagall, is really challenging. Their first day they have to try to turn a match into a needle, and only Hermione comes close to doing it.Defense Against the Dark Arts seems like a waste. Quirrell is kind of a quack; he smells funny and can't finish any of his stories.That Friday at breakfast, they're talking about how they have their first Potions class with Snape. Ron says Snape privileges Slytherin students, because he's head of their house, but McGonagall doesn't favor Gryffindors, which she's head of.The mail comes, and Hedwig has something for Harry for the first time. It's a note from Hagrid inviting him to tea.Then they go to Potions, which stinks. Harry decides Snape hates him. Their class meets in the dungeons, and Snape makes fun of Harry's fame. He tells them that Potions is challenging and rewarding, then asks Harry a tricky technical question. Harry has no idea what the answer is, but even though Hermione knows, Snape won't call on her. He asks several more questions, making fun of Harry and ignoring Hermione. Harry says he should ask her, and Snape scolds him for being cheeky.Throughout the lesson, Snape's down on everyone except Malfoy. Neville has especial trouble with his potion and Snape calls him an idiot, while blaming Harry for the mixed-up potion.After the class, Harry's bummed that Snape is so down on him already.He and Ron go to meet Hagrid for tea.Hagrid lives on the edge of the forest and has a huge dog named Fang. The tea's not very good, but the company is. Hagrid reassures them that Snape doesn't particularly have it out for Harry, but Harry doesn't quite believe him. Hagrid asks Ron about his brother Charlie, who trains dragons.While they're talking, Harry looks at an excerpt from the wizard newspaper, The Daily Prophet. It's an update on the robbery at Gringotts. The article says that nothing was taken, and the broken-in vault had been emptied right before the robbery.Harry says the robbery must have happened when he and Hagrid were at Gringotts, and Hagrid won't look him in the face. He doesn't deny it outright, though.Harry has a lot to think about as he and Ron go back to Hogwarts. He wonders what Hagrid's hiding from him.

Chapter 9 The Midnight Duel
Harry has an even worse time with Malfoy than he did with Dudley, but manages to avoid him until their houses are scheduled to take flying lessons together.
Harry's worried about looking stupid, but Ron says that they'll find out if Malfoy's really good at Quidditch.Quidditch is a big topic among the students: Malfoy, Seamus Finnigan, and Ron all talk about their flying skills.Neville and Hermione are both nervous about flying, just like Harry.That Thursday, Hermione's telling them all about literary flying advice when the mail arrives. Neville gets a Remembrall, which is a ball that turns red if you've got something to remember, from his grandma. Neville can't remember what the subject of it is though. Malfoy snatches it away, but McGonagall comes by and makes him give it back.That afternoon they're meeting to learn about flying.The students from Gryffindor and Slytherin make two rows, and then their teacher, Madam Hooch, shows. She tells them all to hold their hands over their brooms and call, 'Up!' Everyone tries, but only a couple of people, including Harry, get the hang of it right away, and Neville doesn't at all.She shows them how to mount and tells them to take off. But Neville goes early, can't control it, and falls off from a great height. He has a broken wrist and Madam Hooch takes him to the infirmary. She tells everyone else to wait there and not to fly their brooms.As soon as she's gone, Malfoy makes fun of Neville, and the two houses start arguing. Malfoy produces Neville's Remembrall and taunts Harry with it. Even though Madam Hooch said to not do anything, Malfoy flies off with the Remembrall and Harry chases him.Harry discovers he loves flying.Malfoy throws the Remembrall to get Harry out of the way. Harry dives after it, in a daredevil swoop through the air, and catches it to his and everyone else's surprise.McGonagall shows up right then and seems really mad. She tells Harry to go with her and takes him back inside the castle.Harry gets really freaked out as she takes him all the way through the castle without talking. He worries that he'll be kicked out. He's a little confused when she pauses and pulls a student named Wood out of a classroom.They go into another empty room, which she kicks Peeves out of, and then tells Wood she's discovered a Seeker. Harry isn't sure what's happening but is glad he's not getting kicked out of Hogwarts.
Instead of being mad, McGonagall explains to Wood the amazing flying she just saw Harry do. Wood asks Harry if he knows anything about Quidditch.Even though first years aren't usually supposed to get on Quidditch teams, McGonagall wants to make an exception – she's upset by how badly Slytherin kicked their butts last game.
She tells Harry to work hard, and says that his father, who was also really good at Quidditch, would've been pleased.At dinner, all the other Gryffindors are really stoked for Harry. It's supposed to be a secret. Fred and George are on the team too, and they think that with Harry's help they'll be able to win the tournament.Malfoy stops by with his sidekicks and makes fun of Harry. Harry insults him back, and they agree to have a wizard's duel at midnight. Ron and Crabbe will be seconds. Harry doesn't even know what he's gotten himself into. Hermione tells them not to go, but they don't listen.That night Harry and Ron stay awake until everyone else is asleep, and at 11:30 they leave the dorm. They're going through the common room when they run into Hermione, who tells them not to go. While she's lecturing them, she accidentally gets locked out of their tower, so she has to follow them.Ron and Harry are fighting with Hermione about not telling Filch anything about why they're out when they run into Neville, who was also locked out of their dorm. He refuses to stay behind, and so they all go looking for Malfoy.They get to the trophy room first and wait there, wondering what's happened to Malfoy. Hearing Filch's voice surprises them; he seems to be looking for them.They're all running away from Filch when Neville bumps into Ron and they knock some armor over loudly. They run even farther and end up in the Charms corridor.Hermione says that Malfoy played a joke on Harry and was never going to show up; it was a plot to get him in trouble with Filch. They all are trying to get back to their dorm when they run into Peeves. Peeves yells super loudly that there are students in the hallways, and they have to make a break for it.They end up against a locked door. Hermione does a magic charm, and opens the door – they run through just in time.Listening through the door, they hear Filch asking Peeves where they went. But Peeves is a joker and won't answer.It's out of the frying pan and into the fire, though, when they realize they've ended up in the one place they weren't supposed to go: the wing that was forbidden by Dumbledore. And they weren't supposed to go in there because in it is a huge monster dog with three heads that has eyes full of death.They make it through the door just in time, and luckily Filch is gone too. They race back to the Gryffindor tower and fall down relieved.They're wondering why something so dangerous was there and Hermione says the dog was guarding a trapdoor. She tells them they're lucky nothing really bad happened and flounces off.As they go to bed, Harry realizes that the dog and trapdoor must be protecting the packet Hagrid picked up from Gringotts.

Chapter 10 Halloween
The following day Malfoy seems surprised that Harry and Ron haven't been humiliated or expelled. They think it was an adventure, and Harry tells Ron all about the secret packet Hagrid picked up at the bank.Neville and Hermione aren't as interested in talking about the dog and the trapdoor, and Hermione's actually giving them the silent treatment. Ron and Harry want to get Malfoy back for what he did.They're helped by what arrives in the mail that morning. Owls drop off a big box for Harry. It comes with a letter from McGonagall telling him not to open it till later: it's a fancy broomstick. It has instructions for his first training session too.They sneak out to open it but run into Crabbe, Goyle, and Malfoy. Malfoy figures out it's a broomstick and says he'll get in trouble. Ron retaliates that it's a really fancy one, a Nimbus 2000, and is way cooler than Malfoy's. Malfoy says Ron's family is too poor to afford one.Professor Flitwick, who sides with Harry, interrupts them. Harry says Malfoy helped him get it, and then he and Ron peace out.Hermione frowns on them for getting a prize for disobedience.
Harry gets distracted all day and can't wait for his lesson that night at 7 pm. It's his first time on the Quidditch field. He gets in a little flying before Wood arrives to tell him more about the game.So, Quidditch has two teams, with seven players each, and three kinds of balls. There are three Chasers on each side and their job is to get one of the balls, the Quaffle, through the other side's hoop and score points. Each side has a Keeper who tries to keep the Chasers from scoring with the Quaffle (Wood is Gryffindor's Keeper). Then, each team has two Beaters who try to keep two other balls, the Bludgers, from knocking over the Chasers while they're going after the Quaffle. Then, each team has one other player, the Seeker, who flies about looking for the Golden Snitch. It's worth 250 points, so usually if one side's Seeker catches it they win the game.
As Wood explains all this, he releases the different balls into the air and shows Harry what they're like.They practice Seeking a little with golf balls, and Wood tells Harry that with him on the team, they have a real shot of getting the house cup.Meanwhile, Halloween rolls around. Harry feels that Hogwarts is way more of a home to him already. In Charms class, they get to learn how to make stuff fly, starting with feathers. Harry and Seamus work together, as do Ron and Hermione. Ron's impatient, so Hermione shows him how to do it, saying 'Wingardium Leviosa!' and making her feather float.As they're leaving class, Ron calls her a "nightmare," and Hermione overhears. Harry worries that she might be upset, and they don't see her for the rest of the day. They hear that she's hiding out in the girls' bathroom crying.At dinner in the Great Hall, everyone's just started eating the fabulous banquet when Prof. Quirrell comes in, freaking out. He cries that there's a troll in the dungeon, before fainting.Dumbledore tells all the students to go back to their dorms. As Percy is leading the Gryffindors back to theirs, Harry and Ron confer about Hermione and realize she isn't aware of the troll thing. They split off and go to look for her.On their way, they see Snape and wonder why he isn't with their other instructors. They're following him when they smell something really bad. They see the huge, stinky troll, and follow it to an open door. When it goes through, Harry and Ron follow and lock it in.Just when they're happy and relieved, they hear a big scream. They realize they locked the troll in the bathroom with Hermione.They run back in, even though they don't want to, and try to distract the troll. Ron tosses a pipe at it, and Harry tells Hermione to run away. Harry jumps on the troll's back and accidentally sticks his wand up its nose.Ron uses the spell they learned in charms to make the troll's club levitate and smack the troll in the head.They decide they just knocked it out. Profs. McGonagall, Snape, and Quirrell show up.McGonagall is really angry. Just when Harry and Ron think they're really going to get it, Hermione lies and says it was her idea to go after the troll. She says Ron and Harry came to her rescue.McGonagall scolds her, demerits her five points, and sends her away; then rewards Ron and Harry five points each and sends them back to their dorm.
When they get back to the common room they thank each other and end up becoming friends.

Chapter 11 Quidditch
After Halloween, the weather gets colder and they move into Quidditch season. Harry's excited about playing in his first game, which will be against Slytherin.
Even though Harry's position on the team is supposed to be a secret, word is on the street that he's playing. People tell him it's going to be either really awesome or really terrible. Harry's glad to be friends with Hermione, because she helps him with his homework.Harry learns all about the history of Quidditch from a book Hermione lends him, Quidditch Through the Ages.Hermione seems to be a little bit cooler when it comes to rules and stuff. The day before Harry's first match, Harry, Ron, and Hermione hang out in the courtyard. Snape comes over to them and asks to see it. He takes it away and criticizes them for having a library book outside the building. As he walks away, they notice he's limping.That night, all the Gryffindors are hanging out, excited, in their dorm. Hermione's helping Ron and Harry with their homework, and then Harry decides to chase down Snape to go get his book back.He goes to the teachers' lounge, and no one answers his knock. When he peeks inside, he sees Filch helping Snape bandage his leg. Snape's talking about something with three heads, and sees Harry before Harry can get away. He yells at Harry to get out.Harry goes back to the dorm without his book, but with the idea that Snape is after whatever the three-headed monster dog is protecting. Ron agrees, but Hermione doesn't see why Snape would go against Dumbledore.
When they go to bed, Harry's still thinking about the problem.When he wakes up, he's too nervous to eat. Hermione tries to convince him to have some breakfast, but he's put off by Seamus telling him that Seekers always get beat up the most.
Nearly the whole student body shows up to watch the match, and Harry's first-year friends are all there to support him.The Gryffindor Quidditch team has a spirit meeting, where Wood encourages them about how great they are.The game's referee is Madam Hooch. She tells them all to play fair and starts the game.Lee Jordan gives a running commentary on the game. The Chasers pass the Quaffle back and forth between their teams, and Gryffindor is the first to score.Up in the stands, Hagrid joins Harry's friends.Harry still hasn't seen the Snitch, or much action; one Bludger comes at him, but that's all.The Slytherins have the ball when people seem to see the Snitch. Harry and the Slytherin Seeker race after it, and Harry is fouled by Marcus Flint.The Gryffindors and the commentator think it was cheating, but there's not a big penalty.Harry just thinks he sees the Snitch again when his broom gets all wobbly. He realizes it's taken on a life of its own and won't do anything he wants it to. Everyone else is looking at the game's action.Hagrid and the other observers notice that Harry's broom is out of control. It tosses Harry off and he clings one-handedly.Ron, Hagrid and Hermione realize that someone powerful has enchanted Harry's broomstick, and they see Snape watching Harry and mouthing something. Hermione thinks it's a jinx.The other players aren't able to rescue Harry from the misbehaving broom.Hermione runs to the other side, where she knocks Prof. Quirrell over in her rush to get to Snape and casts a little spell to light his robe on fire. She runs away without being noticed.Harry's no longer unable to control his broom. As he's flying back down to earth, he catches the Snitch in his mouth, and his team wins the game.Afterwards, Harry, Ron and Hermione go back to Hagrid's for tea and sympathy. Hermione and Ron tell Harry they think Snape put a jinx on him, although Hagrid disagrees.To support their point, Harry tells Hagrid about how Snape must've tried to slip by the three-headed dog.Hagrid calls the dog "Fluffy" and says it's his. He won't say what it's protecting. Despite their protests, he doesn't believe that Snape was cursing Harry. In his rush to tell them to leave things alone, he mentions Nicolas Flamel.
Harry picks up on this, but can't learn anything more.

Chapter 12 The Mirror of Erised
It's almost the winter holiday end of term. Hogwarts is all snowy and cold, especially the dungeons, and the students are all ready for a little break.
During Potions class, Malfoy makes fun of Harry and the people who can't go home for the holidays, since making fun of Harry during the Quidditch game hasn't worked out so well for him.Harry is staying at Hogwarts over the holiday. The Weasleys are staying too, because their parents are traveling. Harry thinks it will be way better than going to the Dursleys'.After Potions, Harry and Ron run into Hagrid, who's bringing a huge Christmas tree inside Hogwarts. Malfoy comes up behind them and makes fun of Ron's family for being poor.Just when Ron attacks Malfoy, Snape appears and sides with his Slytherin student, even though Hagrid tries to stand up for Ron.Ron and Harry talk about getting back at Malfoy. Hagrid distracts them by taking them to the Great Hall to look at the Christmas decorations. The Hall looks awesome.Hermione is there and reminds them that they have to go to the library since they only have one day left before vacation.When Hagrid asks why they're so gung-ho to study, they explain that they are trying to do research on Nicolas Flamel. Hagrid won't tell them anything else, and even though they've done a lot of research, they haven't dug anything up yet. They've checked many of the major books and come up with nothing.Harry checks the restricted section, which has books about dark magic, but gets shooed out by the librarian. Ron and Hermione follow, and they confirm that no news has been found yet. Hermione asks them to keep researching while she's gone over the holidays.
When classes are over, Ron and Harry are stoked to have alone time to relax in. Ron tells Harry about wizard chess, where the pieces can talk and help (or hinder) the players. Ron has a family set and Harry borrowed one from Seamus.Christmas Day, Harry is surprised and pleased to see that he got presents, just like Ron. He gets a flute from Hagrid, 50 pence from the Dursleys, a sweater from Mrs. Weasley, and Chocolate Frogs from Hermione. The coolest gift, though, is what Ron tells him is an invisibility cloak.The cloak comes with an unsigned note that says the cloak belonged to Harry's dad.Ron is jealous, and Harry is blown away.Fred, George, and Percy come in, with Weasley sweaters, and go downstairs for the great feast.
The dinner is the best one Harry's ever had, with magic wizard crackers and all kinds of desserts. Harry gets even more presents from the crackers, including his own wizard chess stuff. He has a great rest of the day, with a Weasley snowball fight and more hanging out and eating.When he goes to bed that night, he re-focuses on the puzzle of the invisibility cloak. He realizes the cloak will help him break a lot of rules. It's really amazing to have something that belonged to his dad, so he wants to try it out right away. He wants to use it by himself.
He slips out of the Gryffindor dorm and heads back to the restricted section of the library. He's sort of weirded out by how he looks when he's invisible.
In the library, the books look creepy and unhelpful. He picks one to look at but when he opens it, it starts screaming. Even though he quickly closes the book and tries to run away, the screaming continues. Filch comes in, looking for the intruder, as Harry runs out.Harry finds himself in a corridor he doesn't recognize, next to some armor. He hears the voices of Snape and Filch, and he gets worried that he'll get caught. He goes into a room that he sees left open, and the other men don't seem to realize it when he moves away.They leave, and Harry looks around the room. It has desks, chairs, and a tremendous golden mirror with strange words carved on the top. The words are "Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi" (12.118).Harry looks at the mirror, planning to geek out some more about being invisible, but freaks when he sees his reflection, and the reflections of a bunch of other people. He's not sure if there are other invisible folks in the room or what. When he looks in the mirror again, he sees a beautiful lady and a man, both of whom look a lot like Harry. He calls them "Mom" and "Dad," and realizes that the other people in the picture must be his relations.He looks and looks in the mirror and is both really happy and really sad. He has a hard time leaving the people in the mirror.The next morning, Harry gets Ron, because he wants to show him his family. He thinks Ron will be able to see his family too. Ron's not excited about that, and tries to get Harry to eat. But all Harry can think about is seeing his family again.That night, Harry is worried they won't be able to get back to the room with the mirror, but they find it at last. When they go over to it, Harry sees his parents right away, but Ron can't. When Ron looks in the mirror by himself, he sees something very different: himself as head boy, Quidditch captain, and winner of the house and Quidditch cups.They can't decide how the mirror works, and are in the midst of an argument when they're interrupted by the noise of Filch's cat. They decide to return to the dorm.The next day, even though Ron tries to distract him, all Harry can think about is the mirror. Even though Ron thinks Harry shouldn't go back, it's all he wants to do.That night, Harry ditches Ron and goes back to the mirror. He just sits and looks at his family.Suddenly, he realizes that Dumbledore is there. Dumbledore explains to him how the mirror works: it shows the viewer his or her most inner desire. He explains Harry saw his family because he lost them, while Ron sees himself with all the attention, because he doesn't get it. Dumbledore says the mirror is really dangerous. He's going to take it away from Hogwarts and asks Harry not to follow it.As they're leaving, Harry asks Dumbledore about what he sees in the mirror. Dumbledore says nice, warm socks. Later, Harry realizes that this might not have been his real answer.

Chapter 13 Nicolas Flamel
After the whole mirror episode, Harry gives the invisibility cloak a rest. Instead, he has a lot of nightmares about his parents dying and seeing a weird green light.Hermione comes back for classes and is bummed they haven't made more progress on Flamel. The three never got anything out of the library on him, and they're pretty busy when classes start again.What really crowds Harry's schedule is Quidditch: they've got lots of extra practices preparing for the big game, and they have to be on their toes because Snape will be the referee.When Harry hears about Snape being the ref, he wants to tell Ron and Hermione right away. They both think he should save himself and not play in the game. Harry has to, though, because he's their team's only Seeker.They're interrupted when Neville falls into the room; his legs are stuck together with a curse. Hermione un-curses him, and Neville says Malfoy did it. He doesn't want any more trouble so he's not going to report it. Harry and Hermione try to comfort him, and Harry gives him a chocolate frog.Neville gives Harry the card inside the frog, which is a picture of Dumbledore. Then, Harry realizes that's where he heard about Flamel before: Flamel is mentioned on the card. He partnered with Dumbledore in alchemy studies.This gives Hermione a brainwave, and she dashes off to grab a huge book She tells them that Flamel is the only person who can make the Sorcerer's Stone.Ron and Harry aren't impressed, so Hermione makes them read the relevant passage.The Stone can transform metal into gold, and it can also make an elixir of immortality. Flamel is the only guy around who has access to one.Hermione thinks the three-headed monster dog is guarding the Stone, and Harry says it makes sense everyone would want it.The three are still talking about the Stone the next day in Defense Against the Dark Arts class. Harry decides he's going to play in the match in spite of Snape.Harry's really nervous though, and the rest of his team is worried about Snape's bias as a ref. Harry is also worried that Snape can read his mind and is stalking him.When it's game time, Harry, Ron and Hermione are all worried just for Harry's safety, let alone winning.Ron and Hermione (who've been practicing curses) sit with Neville to watch the game, while Harry gets ready. When Harry hears Dumbledore is watching the game too, he relaxes a little.
Malfoy and his cohorts come sit with Hermione and Ron to put them off. Hermione and Ron are worried about Snape's refereeing; he's already given the other team, Hufflepuff, an unjust penalty.Malfoy insults Harry, Ron, and Neville, and the Gryffindor team; when Neville stands up to him, Ron has his back.Then, Hermione interrupts because Harry seems to be in danger: his broom is headed straight for the ground at high speed.Malfoy says that Harry must be looking for money for Ron, and Ron jumps him. Neville helps.Hermione's so focused on Harry she doesn't notice.Suddenly Harry whooshes by Snape and grabs the Snitch, winning the game. All the Gryffindors are super excited.Dumbledore congratulates Harry, and Snape seems angry.After the game, a contented Harry is putting his broom away, when he sees a mysterious person heading into the forest. He thinks it's Snape, and decides to follow on his broomstick. He goes deeper and deeper until he catches up.He sees/hears Snape and Quirrell in a furious discussion. Snape mentions the Stone and asks Quirrell if he's figured out how to get to it. They argue. Snape accuses Quirrell of disloyalty and leaves, and Quirrell seems shocked.Back at Hogwarts, Hermione and Ron congratulate Harry again, and tell how Ron and Neville whaled on Malfoy and his friends. They want him to come party with the Gryffindors, but he takes them aside to explain what he saw in the forest.They all think that once Quirrell caves into Snape, the Stone will disappear.

Chapter 14 Norbert The Norwegian Ridgeback
The three friends keep an eye on Quirrell, the three-headed dog, and Snape. Everything seems to be status quo.Hermione wants them all to get started studying for end-of-year exams, which are in ten weeks. They're a requirement for making it to year two.The students have tons of homework, especially through the Easter break. One day, Harry, Ron, and Hermione are working in the library when they spot Hagrid. They tell him they know all about Flamel and what Fluffy's protecting.
Hagrid shushes them and tells them to come over later, before sneaking out.
Hermione notices he was hiding something, and Ron figures out he was reading up about dragons. Ron explains that having a dragon is illegal and a lot of trouble – although there are some wild ones in the UK; they're just kept secret from Muggles.At Hagrid's house, everything seems secretive. Harry wants to know what else is protecting the Stone. Hagrid won't tell, saying he doesn't know, and they already know enough, anyway.Hermione flatters Hagrid into saying that some other faculty, including Quirrell and Snape, did protective spells on it. Hagrid's confident that Fluffy is good protection, and says only he and Dumbledore know about that.Hagrid also defends Snape, but the other three aren't sure. They notice how hot it is in the house, and realize Hagrid has a huge egg nested there. Hagrid says he won it from a stranger. He's been doing research and is excited about his Norwegian Ridgeback, although the other three don't think it's sensible. So, they have to add Hagrid's illegal activity to their list of concerns.Days later, they get a note that says the dragon's being born.Ron and Harry want to go right away, but Hermione says they have to go to Herbology class. Harry worries Malfoy overheard them.During break they head to Hagrid's and watch the dragon emerge. It's ugly but Hagrid loves it. Suddenly they realize someone else is spying – Harry sees it's Malfoy.For the next week, the three worry about Malfoy. They want Hagrid to let the dragon go, but it's still a (big) baby, and Hagrid loves it: he's named it Norbert.Ron has the bright idea that they could ask his brother Charlie, who trains dragons in Romania, for help. They send him a note via owl.
Several days later, Charlie's reply arrives, right after Norbert bites Ron's hand. The note says that Charlie will help them out. They need to take Norbert to the highest tower of Hogwarts that Saturday in the middle of the night, and Charlie's friends will pick him up. Harry says they can use the invisibility cloak.Before the handoff, Ron gets sick because of the bite and has to go to the infirmary. Malfoy visits him there and threatens to tell the truth. He borrows a book that has Charlie's letter with the plan in it, but Ron realizes this too late.Harry and Hermione decide they have to proceed with their plan anyway. They tell Hagrid, who can barely control the small dragon.That Saturday, Harry and Hermione are worried about everything going smoothly. Hagrid says goodbye to Norbert, sobbing. Harry and Hermione struggle to get the dragon in its crate up the tower, while all three hiding under the cloak.Suddenly they see Prof. McGonagall telling Malfoy off. He says he's waiting for Harry and the dragon; she says he's lying and gives him detention.After the others leave, Harry and Hermione wait for Charlie's friends. For a moment, after the friends take Norbert safely away, they're happy and relieved.They're going back downstairs when they run into Filch, and then realize they forget the invisibility cloak. Problem!

Chapter 15 The Forbidden Forest
Harry and Hermione are in big, big trouble. Filch deposits them in McGonagall's office to wait for her, and Harry is super worried about how much trouble they'll be in.Problems increase when McGonagall appears with Neville, who was also out of bed – looking for Harry to warn him about Malfoy.McGonagall demands an explanation but Harry and Hermione are silent. She thinks they tried to trick Malfoy, and got Neville mixed up in it.Neville has hurt feelings.McGonagall is really mad. They all have detention and are fined fifty points each from their house.That night, they're distraught about how mad their housemates will be – they've taken them from first to last place in one night, and it's almost the end of the year.By the end of the day, everyone (except the Slytherins) is upset at Harry. Ron is the only guy who isn't mad.Harry is desperate to atone and even tries to quit Quidditch, but Wood won't let him. The team needs him, but they're crabby too.
Harry resolves not to meddle or try to figure stuff out any more.Hermione and Neville have it rough too. Harry, Ron, and Hermione try to buckle down, study, and forget about it.Fast forward to one week before their big tests. Harry's leaving the library when he hears Quirrell whimpering and crying. He sees Quirrell come out of a classroom, touch his turban, and walk away, without seeing Harry.Harry looks in the room after Quirrell leaves but doesn't see anything. He thinks, though, that Snape was probably in there tormenting him. He returns to the library and tells Ron and Hermione about it. They think it means Snape's getting closer to snatching the Stone.Hermione says they should talk to Dumbledore about it, but Harry thinks they shouldn't get involved. They don't have any evidence, and they already have information they aren't supposed to have. He thinks they should stay out of it.At the following breakfast, Harry, Hermione, and Neville, are notified that they will have detention that night. They meet Filch, who's already with Malfoy, downstairs at eleven PM and he takes them outside, lecturing them about how they're really getting off easily.Filch takes them to Hagrid's – Harry's momentarily relieved until Filch says they'll be going into the forest. This scares even Malfoy.Filch hands them over to Hagrid and says he'll pick them up at first light. Malfoy protests because he doesn't want to go in the forest or do menial labor, and Hagrid says if he wants to stay at Hogwarts he'll do as he's told.Hagrid gives them instructions: this is a tricky situation. He's found unicorn blood, and he found another unicorn dead earlier. They have to stop whatever's hurting the unicorns. Hagrid says if they stay with him or Fang, they'll be safe. They'll split into two groups: Hagrid, Harry and Hermione will look in one direction, and Neville, Malfoy, and Fang will look another. They all have to be on guard.Hagrid tells Harry that a werewolf isn't the one hurting the unicorns, and he doesn't know what else it could be. They spy more blood. Suddenly, Hagrid pushes the two of them behind a tree and arms himself. They hear a slithering noise, but don't see anything.They move along carefully, and Hagrid calls out to something they see ahead to come out.What appears is a centaur, Ronan, whom Hagrid knows. Hagrid tells Ronan what they're doing, and Ronan says some mystical things about danger and innocent victims.Another centaur, Bane, comes in. He's not much help either, so the other three move on.Harry is uneasy as they keep moving. Hermione spots a sign from the other group that means they're in danger. Hagrid runs after them while the other two stay. When he comes back, he explains that Malfoy played a joke on Neville, who panicked.Hagrid is mad that they fooled around and changes the groups, swapping Harry for Neville.Harry's group searches, following more and more tracks of blood, and finally they come across the dead unicorn.They hear a creepy noise again and see a body with a hood slide across the ground to the unicorn and start drinking its blood.Malfoy screams and he and Fang run for it. Harry's frozen and the thing comes toward him. He feels a searing terrible pain in his head and scar.Something with hooves gallops up and runs at the scary hooded thing. The pain fades. Harry sees another centaur, who recognizes him, and tells him he must leave the forest. The centaur, Firenze, tells Harry to ride on his back. The other centaurs appear. They're mad at Firenze for letting a human ride him. But Firenze says that there are way more important things going on, and they just can't see it.They ride off. Harry asks Firenze why they're so mad, and he explains that to take a unicorn's blood is one of the worst possible things. If you drink it your life will be cursed, and the only reason to do it is if you're on a quest for immortality.Harry realizes that the person seeking the Stone must be Voldemort, and that must be what he saw in the clearing.
Firenze takes him back to Hermione and Hagrid, and the centaur says goodbye.Back at the Gryffindor tower, Ron is sleeping and waiting for them. They wake him and tell the whole story. Harry explains that Snape must be working for Voldemort and the centaurs are worried about Voldemort's return, which they saw in the stars.
Hermione tries to reassure Harry, saying that Dumbledore will keep him safe.When they go to bed, Harry finds his invisibility cloak hidden in his sheets.

Chapter 16 Through the Trapdoor
Even though Harry's worried about Voldemort, he continues studying for the end of year tests. He and the other first years endure their exams, which are both written and hands-on. Harry's scar is still bothering him, and he's having bad dreams again. Ron and Hermione aren't as worried.They finish their last exam, in History of Magic, and the three friends go relax by the lake.Harry tries to explain to the other two that he's worried and thinks trouble's coming They try to reassure him: Ron says no one can get past the monster dog. Hermione commiserates that she also feels like she can't remember something.Harry's thinking and realizes that something important might have happened with Hagrid. He insists they all go see him immediately. He says it's weird and convenient that a stranger showed up with a dragon egg, which is something only Hagrid would really want.
At Hagrid's cottage, Hagrid welcomes them, and Harry asks about the stranger with the egg. Hagrid says he doesn't know what he looked like because he stayed in his cloak.They ask Hagrid what he talked about with the stranger, and he reveals that he accidentally told him how to get past Fluffy – playing music will put him to sleep.Freaked out, the three students return to the castle and start making a plan. Harry says they have to go tell Dumbledore right away. They're on the way when McGonagall stops them. She says Dumbledore's left for London after getting a message about important business.Harry tries to get her to help by telling her that the Stone is in jeopardy. She's amazed they know about the Stone, but says it is safe and everything will be all right.After McGonagall leaves, Harry says that they have to stop the plan that will be going down that night; he thinks Snape has masterminded the whole thing.They run into Snape, who tells them to go outside, and warns them of possible expulsion.Once Snape is gone, Harry makes a defensive plan. Hermione will lurk by the staff room and follow Snape if he goes anywhere suspicious, while he and Ron go wait by the room where Fluffy is.But there they run into McGonagall. She says they have to get going, or she'll deduct major points. On their retreat, they run into Hermione, who was spotted by Snape and had to regroup.Harry's had it; he says that night he'll try to get to the Stone too. He explains how dire the situation is and how they have to do something, or Voldemort will come back. All the other small problems will fade away if Voldemort makes a triumphant return.Hermione and Ron say that they will help.That night they hang out in the dorm until everyone else goes to sleep. Harry gets the nvisibility cloak and the flute Hagrid gave him. They're getting ready to leave when Neville interrupts them. They don't want to tell him what they're doing, but he doesn't want to get them into trouble.Hermione has no choice but to enchant Neville with a petrifying charm. They have to leave him, frozen, on the dorm floor and go on their invisible way to Fluffy's.They pass Mrs. Norris and Peeves. Peeves can hear them, although he can't see, and threatens to call Filch.Harry poses as the Bloody Baron and gets Peeves to back off.At Fluffy's lair, the door's already open. Harry tries to tell the other two he can do it by himself, but they insist on going in as a team. When they go in, they see a harp and the alert dog.Harry plays the flute, and the dog falls asleep. He keeps playing as they try to pass it.
They get to a trapdoor and can't see what's beneath. Harry jumps through and is followed by Ron. They land on some sort of plant.Hermione follows and realizes that Ron and Harry are in danger – they've landed in a plant called Devil's Snare and are being pulled in by its tentacles.Hermione escaped the plant and is panicking, trying to remember how to stop it. She remembers an Herbology lesson and realizes fire will stop it. Ron and Harry help her realize she can use magic fire.The boys escape the plant and the three keep going into a passage. It reminds Harry of Gringotts.They hear a noise and end up in a small room full of tiny flying things. There's a door on the other side but it's locked. Harry realizes the small things are keys.They find broomsticks in the room and realize they have to fly to catch the right key, so they figure out which one is likely and begin searching.Because Harry's a Seeker in Quidditch, he has an advantage. He spots the key and they attack it from all sides. The key struggles once they've caught it but Harry manages to insert it into the door and they get through as they key flies away again.The next chamber is full of a life-size chess game. Ron realizes they have to play to cross. He says they should each take a position: he steps up as knight; Harry will be a bishop, and Hermione a castle.Ron is in charge of the game because he's best at chess. He moves the pieces as the other two watch.The three are freaked when they start losing pieces because it is so dangerous.
Ron realizes he has to sacrifice himself so the other two can cross. He says the other two have to keep going no matter what. He puts himself open to the white queen, who crushes him and makes him unconscious.They win the game, and the other team leaves.Hermione and Harry continue. They're trying to figure out what other spells to conquer. They pass a giant troll that has already been vanquished. The next room has a bunch of bottles – it's Snape's spell – in front of a row of fire.Hermione finds a paper with rhyming clues on it next to the bottles. She says it's a logic problem, not a spell, and she can figure it out with the evidence it has.She thinks, and says that the tiniest bottle will get someone through the fire, as Harry points out that there's only enough liquid for one. He tells her to go back, rescue Ron, and send for help, while he goes forward and tries to hold Snape off for a little while.They embrace, and Hermione says to be careful.
Hermione drinks from a different bottle so she can retrace her steps. Harry drinks from the tiny bottle and goes forward. The drinks are like ice.In the last room, Harry sees a person he wasn't expecting.

Chapter 17 The Man with Two Faces
Harry is confronted by Quirrell, who immediately says he was using Snape as a cover.Harry's confused, saying he thought Snape tried to murder him during Quidditch, but Quirrell reveals that was him. Quirrell says that Snape tried to referee the next game to protect Harry too.Quirrell says he's going to kill Harry now, though, and binds him with magic rope.He admits he brought the troll in, and was foiled by Harry and Snape – he didn't get past Fluffy then.Now, though, he wants to look into the Mirror of Erised, which is what's hidden in this last room. He says that's how he'll find the Stone.Harry tries to distract Quirrell by asking about Snape – Quirrell says Snape was suspicious of him all along, but he did also hate Harry because of his background with Harry's father.Quirrell adds that he wasn't talking to Snape when Harry overheard him begging, but to Voldemort. He says Voldemort taught him to reevaluate good and evil, but has punished him when he's failed in the past.Harry realizes he saw Quirrell at the Leaky Cauldron on the day that someone tried to rob Gringotts.While Quirrell's puzzling over the Stone, Harry realizes that he can also use the mirror to figure out where the Stone is. But because he's tied up with magic rope, he falls over.A creepy voice insists Quirrell should have Harry help him figure out where the Stone is, so Quirrell makes Harry come look in the mirror.Harry decides to lie.When he looks in the mirror he sees himself holding the Stone, and his reflection winks. Harry realizes the real stone is in his pocket.He lies to Quirrell that he sees school success in the mirror and Quirrell pushes him away… but the voice makes him come back, saying that he's not telling the truth.The voice says it wants to speak directly to Harry. Quirrell unwraps his turban and turns around, revealing, instead of the back of his head, a face so frightening that Harry can't even speak.The face talks to Harry, saying that it's been living a half-life, feeding on its followers' bodies and drinking unicorn blood. It's waiting to get the Stone so it can make an Elixir of Life and become fully alive again.It knows that Harry has the Stone and asks him for it, before taunting him that he'll end up dead just like his parents. He says Harry's parents begged and pleaded while he killed them.
Harry refuses, calling him a liar. Quirrell's body/Voldemort's face come after up as Harry tries to make a break for it.When Quirrell/Voldemort touches him, Harry has major pain in his head and screams. But he realizes that Quirrell is in pain when he touches him. Even though Voldemort urges Quirrell to grab Harry and kill him, each time Quirrell touches him he gets burned. Just when Quirrell is going to death-curse Harry, Harry grabs him by the face and then the arm, trying to distract him with the pain. He holds on, struggling, until he blacks out.When he wakes up, he sees Dumbledore.Harry freaks out and tries to warn Dumbledore about the Stone, and Dumbledore calms him down. Harry figures out that he's in the infirmary.Dumbledore says all his friends have sent him candy and presents, and that everybody in the school knows what happened and is worried about him. Harry's been in the infirmary for three days.Dumbledore says he got there in time to keep Quirrell from getting the Stone. As soon as he got to London, he realized that he should be at Hogwarts. He got back in the nick of time, to save Harry from Quirrell – although at first he worried that Harry had died.To Harry's amazement, Dumbledore says that Flamel and his wife are okay with the Stone being destroyed, and they've had enough of immortality.Harry asks about whether Voldemort is going to come back, and Dumbledore says that he will – he abandoned Quirrell to death and will find someone else to help him in his quest. Their job will be to try and keep him from ever getting full strength again.Harry asks why Voldemort tried to kill him – since Voldemort told him he killed Harry's mother in an attempt to get to Harry – and Dumbledore says he can't tell him that yet.Dumbledore does say that his mother's love protected Harry from beyond the grave, and that's why touching Harry was so painful for Quirrell/Voldemort.This makes Harry cry.Dumbledore says that he brought Harry's dad's invisibility cloak to him.He also says that Prof. Snape did hate his dad, but it was because Harry's dad saved him from death once.
Finally, Dumbledore tells Harry that he (Harry) pulled the Stone from the mirror because he (Dumbledore) made an enchantment that only the person who wanted the Stone without wanting to use it for immortality would be able to find it.Then Dumbledore distracts Harry by eating some Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans.After Dumbledore leaves, Harry convinces Madam Pomfrey to let Ron and Hermione in, just for a couple of minutes. They're super relieved he's okay and ask him to tell them what else happened after they parted ways in the passages. Then, Ron and Hermione fill Harry in on what happened with them: Hermione was helping Ron out to go for help and they passed by Dumbledore as he went in.Ron wonders why Dumbledore gave Harry the invisibility cloak and he thinks Dumbledore was trying to prepare him.As Ron and Hermione are leaving, Ron tells Harry that the next day will be the year-end banquet, where they award the house cup. Slytherin is the winner, but it should be fun anyway.The next day, Madam Pomfrey tells Harry he can go to the banquet, but first he has a visit from Hagrid. Hagrid's devastated that he revealed the calming-Fluffy secret to Voldemort, and Harry soothes him. Hagrid gives Harry a wonderful present: a book of magic photographs of his parents.
That night Harry gets to the feast just in time. Everything's decorated to celebrate Slytherin.Dumbledore makes announcements about giving out the house cup. Slytherin is in first place, but Dumbledore says there are still some points to award. He gives Ron fifty points for the game of chess, Hermione fifty points for her use of logic, and Harry sixty points for his bravery.The students go wild because the additional points tie Gryffindor with Slytherin.Finally, Dumbledore gives Neville ten points for his courage. The Gryffindors freak out because they've won. The decorations magically change to Gryffindor and the four point-getters are smothered by praise from their house. Harry can tell Snape is upset, but he doesn't mind, because he's so happy.After the whole Voldemort thing, the exams seem kind of like a letdown. All four friends pass, Hermione with the best scores of the year. Then, they have to pack up for the summer.They retrace their steps on the Hogwarts Express and return to platform nine and three-quarters.
After crossing the platform, Harry, Ron, and Hermione say goodbye. Mr. Dursley comes to pick Harry up and as Harry's leaving, he tells his friends that being able to do magic will make the summer break way more tolerable.
