United States Patent  (19) 
Hines 

USOO61224.55A 
11 
Patent Number: 
(45)  Date of Patent: 

6,122,455 
Sep.19, 2000 

54)  LENSLESS VIEWFINDER AND LENSLESS 

VIEWFINDER CAMERA 

76  Inventor:  Stephen P. Hines, 4525-B San 

Fernando Rd., Glendale, Calif. 91204 

21  Appl. No.: 09/169,744 
22  Filed: 
Oct. 8, 1998 

Related U.S. Application Data 

Continuation-in-part of application No. 08/859,868, May 
21, 1997, abandoned 
Provisional application No. 60/036,249, Jan. 24, 1997. 
Int. Cl.  ...................................................  G03B 13/08 
U.S. Cl. ............ 
...  396/385; 396/6; 396/375 
Field of Search  ................................  396/6, 373, 375, 
396/378,379, 380,381,385, 386 

References Cited 

U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS 

5 2 55 81. 

56) 

7/1928  Albada. 

1,678.493 
2,187,057  1/1940  Sauer  ......................................  396/386 
2,217,930  10/1940  Zimmerman . 
...  396/386 
...  396/386 
3,380,336  4/1968  Papke ................... 
4,697.901  10/1987  Wakabayashi et al... 
...  396/377 
5,335,033  8/1994  Ruben. 
5,345,285  9/1994  Hasushita et al.  ......................  396/379 

  

5,628,039  5/1997  Muramatsu et al. ....................  396/296 

ABSTRACT 

Primary Examiner  Alan A. Mathews 
Attorney, Agent, or Firm  John E. Wagner 
57 
A viewfinder, particularly useful in a camera, is lensleSS but 
which provides a useful reticle to aid the user to properly 
frame the desired Scene. A camera body includes a view 
finder  front  wall  opening.  Surrounding the  front  wall 
opening, on its interior Surface is a concave mirror with its 
focus on a reticle. The reticle on an internal Surface of the 
camera body is located at the interior face of the eyepiece 
opening region of the viewfinder. Incoming light at the front 
opening illuminates the reticle and its image is reflected by 
the  concave  mirror Surface  to  the  user's  eye.  In  one 
embodiment, the front opening of the camera is a Single 
opening larger than the rear or eyepiece opening, and in 
another embodiment, the front opening constitutes a Series 
of Small holes in the front wall of the camera with the Surface 
between the holes reflectorized and acting as the concave 
mirror. In another embodiment also adapted particularly for 
Zoom lens cameras, a reticle  mask is included within the 
camera body and is adjustable with the Zoom position of the 
taking lens to change the Size of the reticle. This feature 
includes a pair of movable L-shaped masks, each including 
an L-shaped reticle and which combine to produce a variable 
Size rectangular reticle. 

27 Claims, 9 Drawing Sheets 

U.S. Patent 

6,122,455 

  

g. 3A 

U.S. Patent 

6,122,455 

  

U.S. Patent 

Sep.19, 2000 

Sheet 3 of 9 

6,122,455 

  

U.S. Patent 

Sep.19, 2000 

Sheet 4 of 9 

6,122,455 

- 

88: ..... 

  

U.S. Patent 

Sep.19, 2000 

Sheet 5 of 9 

6,122,455 

  

    

22 

  

2 2xy 

  

w  P 

1. S.1. Xa. ss so 

F 

( W f ) 

U.S. Patent 

Sep.19, 2000 

Sheet 6 of 9 

6,122,455 

CB 

  

  

????????????? 

ŒN 

Fig.  12 

WAT 

WHL 
SS 
S 

SS 

E 

S 

----*22. 

SSSSSSSS32 

OH||||||||||T|||||| 

U.S. Patent 

Sep.19, 2000 

Sheet 7 of 9 

6,122,455 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

\ N) O 

SS SS 
32 

SS 
s 

U.S. Patent 

Sep. 19, 2000 

Sheet 8 of 9 

6,122,455 

  

U.S. Patent 

Sep. 19, 2000 

Sheet 9 of 9 

6,122,455 

  

SN 

& 

RS s S Š S. 

S 

S 

1 

6,122,455 

LENSLESS VIEWFINDER AND LENSLESS 

VIEWFINDER CAMERA 

REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 

This is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. patent 
application Ser. No. 08/859,868 filed May 21, 1997, now 
abandoned, which is a non provisional application based 
upon provisional application Ser. No. 60/036,249 filed Jan. 
24, 1997. 

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 

Viewfinders find many uses and are of particular impor 
tance in cameras to aid the photographer in framing the 
Subject. In the past, very inexpensive viewfinders have not 
provided an accurate means to indicate to the photographer 
the aim of the camera. And the most accurate and capable 
viewfinders, found in S70-300 point-and-shoot cameras, are 
too expensive for current S9-S15 single-use cameras. In the 
very least expensive cameras of the Single-use camera type, 
an optical viewfinder is dispensed with, providing only a 
hole through the camera which provides virtually no accu 
racy in aiming the camera. In order to provide accurate 
framing, Viewfinders have been used which require the use 
of a minimum of two lenses, to which reflective optical 
coatings are added (the Albada viewfinder). 

A number of viewfinders have been devised. The follow 
ing  table  describes  various  viewfinders  used  in  Simple 
cameras, including point-and-shoot, and Single-use cameras: 

Summary of existing low cost viewfinders: 

FORMS 

IMAGE OF 

TYPE 

FRAME  COMMENTS 

Large hole 
through camera 

Small hole in 
rear wall of 
camera. Large 
hole through 
front. FIG. 1 

Reverse- 
Galilean 
Viewfinder, 
FIGS. 2 and 2A 

AIbada 
Viewfinder, 
FIGS. 3 and 3A 

No 

No 

No 

Yes 

Pros: costs nothing. 
Cons: Frame line out of focus. Not 
accurate. Acceptable for only the 
least expensive cameras. 
Comments: Small hole near eye acts as 
a pin-hole lens. 
Pros: Image of scene and front frame 
sharp. No motion parallax between 
frame and scene. 
Cons: Not usable by eye-glasses 
wearers. Image is dim. Has limited 
field view. 
Pros: Relatively inexpensive. 
Cons: Adds cost of lenses and 
assembly. Lenses collect dirt, finger 
prints and scratches. Image is 
minified making it harder to see 
Edges of frame are out of focus. Eye 
motion causes parallax errors. 
Comments: Created by adding 
reflective coatings to reverse 
Galilean viewfinder lenses. 
Pros: Bright rectangular frame is 
imaged in the scene. No motion 
parallax between frame and scene. 
Cons: Costs of lenses and assembly. 
Lenses collect dirt, finger prints and 
scratches. Image is minified making it 
harder to see. 

The  reverse-Galilean  viewfinder,  FIG.  2,  so  named 
because it makes use of one positive and one negative lens, 
as Galileo used in the first telescope. However, in reverse 
Galilean viewfinders, the  order of the lenses is  reversed 
which minifies the image. 

The Albada viewfinder as illustrated in FIG. 3 uses the 
Same lenses of the reverse Galilean Viewfinder, but adds a 

1O 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

2 

reflective coating to the concave Surface of the negative lens 
to act as a magnifying mirror. Also a frame or reticle is 
formed on the interior Surface of the positive lens, usually by 
metal deposition. Two Superimposed images are formed, (1) 
the lenses refract transmitted light to create a minified image 
of the scene, and (2) some light reflects off of the reticle 
forward to the concave Surface of the front lens, where it is 
reflected (and focused) rearward to the eye. The images of 
the Scene, and of the reticle, appear to be Superimposed at a 
comfortable viewing distance of about 10 feet. 

In each of these types of prior art cameras which are 
represented in the accompanying drawings, FIGS. 1-3, the 
field of view of the viewfinder is represented in the vertical 
dimension as the space between the lines  FOV(v?) and 
typical images Seen therein are represented by FIGS. 1A, 2A 
and 3A, respectively. 

The field of view of the user's eye is, of course, larger than 
that of the camera viewfinder and is represented in these 
Same figures in the vertical plane by the Space between the 
lines FOV(eye). 

Many cameras, including low cost point and shoot cam 
eras provide Zoom capability. For Such applications, a reticle 
is even more important to accurately frame the photograph. 
In the photo finishing business, a cropping aid is used 
which consists of a pair of planar right angled notched sheets 
which are movable to define a variable size exposure rect 
angle. These two sheets, determine the limits of the Scene 
and crop the final reproduction. In certain complex lens type 
ViewfinderS Similar planar masking devices have been used. 
This type of adjustment has not, heretofore, been applied to 
a lensleSS Viewfinder. 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 

The Subject of this invention relates to a lensleSS optical 
viewfinder and camera with a lensless viewfinder which is 
not only low in cost but provides a reticle which is visible 
through the Viewfinder when the photographer frames the 
portion of the Scene which will appear in the processed 
picture. The user then can obtain properly framed photoS as 
when using much more expensive cameras. 

This is achieved in the preferred embodiment by employ 
ing two aligned openings in the camera case in the front and 
rear walls of the opaque hollow camera body. 

The inner Surface of the front opening in the camera body 
is surrounded by a concave mirror Surface RC. On the inner 
Surface of the rear wall of the body, Surrounding the rear 
opening RO, is a rectangular frame defining the reticle. 

Incident light,  from the Scene,  is  transmitted  directly 
through the openings to the user, and also illuminates the 
reticle which is more reflective than the inside wall of the 
camera Surrounding the rear opening. 

The concave mirror, Surrounding the inside of the front 
opening and outside of the viewfinder field of view FOV(v?), 
reflects and focuses an image of the reticle to the eye of the 
user who sees the image of the reticle as if it is part of the 
Scene in front of the camera. 

The viewfinder of this invention optionally eliminates the 
need for any refractive material Such as lenses or transparent 
windows in the viewfinder opening. 

In the case of a Zoom lens camera, the Same basic lensleSS 
viewfinder is  formed in  the camera body with its  front 
opening and concave mirror. The reticle, however, is formed 
in two parts,  on diagonally opposite corners of the  rear 
opening, described below. 

Within the camera body in the viewfinder optical path are 
a pair of L-shaped sliding masks which define a variable 

6,122,455 

3 

sized  opening.  These plates  are  coupled to  the  Zoom 
adjustment mechanism to change their spacing and thus to 
change the size of the reticle opening to correspond to the 
field of view of the camera lens. 

By comparison  with  the  prior  viewfinders  discussed 

above: 

HINES  LENSLESS VIEW FINDER 

FORMS 

IMAGE OF 

TYPE 

FRAME  COMMENTS 

HINES 
lensless 
perimeter- 
frame 
viewfinder, 
FIGS. 4, 5-7 

HINES 
lensless 
perforated- 
frame 
viewfinder, 
FIGS. 8 and 9 

HINES 
lensless 
variable focal 
length 
viewfinder 

A  HINES 
lensless 
viewfinders 
above 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

Pros: Bright rectangular frame is 
imaged in the scene. No lenses used 
or associated cost. No motion 
parallax between frame and scene. 
Image of scene remains full size as in 
the most expensive SLRs. Costs 
approximates that of using no 
viewfinder. Quality suitable for more 
expensive cameras as well. 
Cons: --- 
Pros: Bright rectangular frame is 
imaged in the scene. No lenses used 
or associated cost. No motion 
parallax between frame and scene. 
Image of scene remains full size as in 
the most expensive SLRs. Costs 
approximates that of using no 
viewfinder. Quality suitable for more 
expensive cameras as well. Provides a 
wider field of view of the scene than 
the reticle, to aid composition. 
Cons: Scene brightness reduced. Edges 
of holes creates some diffraction. 
Accommodates a range of reticle sizes, 
required by Zoom cameras. 
Pros: camera provides accurate frame 
lines, of a size matching that of the 
Zoom lens, without cost of multi 
element Zooming viewfinder lenses. 
Cons: eye relief is slightly reduced 
for wide-angle position. 
Pros: No image minification. 

15 

25 

35 

40 

This viewfinder is not limited to cameras but may be used 
in other applications, as well. The Single use camera is a 
prime candidate for its application because of its low cost, 
ease of incorporation in those products and the fact that it 
provides a reticle image in the field of view of the user's eye 
without the use of any refractive elements and without any 
image minification. 

45 

50 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING 

This invention may be more clearly understood with the 
following detailed description and by reference to the draw 
ings in which: 

FIG. 1 is a transverse Sectional view through a prior art 
lensleSS Viewfinder having a large opening at the front of a 
camera and a Small eyepiece opening at the rear and a user's 
eye with the field of view of the viewfinder FOV(v?) and the 
field of view of the user's eye in the vertical plane defined 
by limit lines; 

FIG. 1A shows the view through the viewfinder of FIG. 1 

with typical Soft-focus indistinct frame lines, 

FIG. 2 is a transverse Sectional view through a conven 
tional prior art reverse-Galilean Viewfinder illustrating the 
light path and fields of view of the viewfinder and of the 
user's eye similar to FIG. 1; 

55 

60 

4 

FIG. 2A shows the minified view through the viewfinder 

of FIG. 2 with Soft-focus indistinct frame lines; 

FIG. 3 is a view similar to FIG. 1 of the prior art Albada 

type viewfinder; 

FIG. 3A shows the minified view through the viewfinder 

of FIG. 3 with Superimposed sharply focused reticle; 

FIG. 4 is a lateral croSS Sectional view through a camera 
incorporating my invention including the fields of View of 
the viewfinder and the  user's eye and the  light paths of 
incident light and the reflected light path from the reticle to 
the concave mirror, and the reflected reticle image to the 
users eye in dashed lines, 

FIG. 4A shows the unminified view through the view 

finder of FIG. 4 with sharply focused reticle; 

FIG. 5 is an interior perspective view of the preferred 

embodiment of my invention of FIG. 4; 

FIG. 6 is a partial perspective view of the embodiment of 

FIGS. 4 and 5; 

FIG. 7 is a partial perspective view similar to FIG. 6 of an 

alternate embodiment of my invention; 

FIG. 7A shows the unminified view of the Scene, with 
Sharply focused reticle and slight localized attenuation of the 
Scene due to the radial Struts, 

FIG. 8 is an interior perspective view similar to FIG. 5 of 
another embodiment of my invention employing a different 
form of front opening; 

FIG. 9 is a partial perspective view similar to FIGS. 6 and 

7 of the embodiment of FIG. 8: 

FIG. 9A shows the  unminified view of the scene with 

Sharply focused reticle; 

FIG. 10 is a partial perspective similar to FIGS. 6 and 7 

of an alternate embodiment of my invention; 
FIG. 11 is a lateral cross-sectional view taken slightly off 
center to  clearly  show reflected  light passing through a 
perimeter opening through a camera of the embodiment of 
FIG. 10 and with a user wearing glasses; 

FIG.  12 is  a perspective  view of a camera with the 
viewfinder of my invention partly broken away for clarity; 
FIG. 13 is a horizontal sectional view of a camera with 
Zoom capability which also employs my lensleSS Viewfinder 
invention with corresponding changeable reticle size; 

FIG. 14 is simplified exploded front elevational view of 

the variable aperture elements of viewfinder of FIG. 13; 

FIG. 15 is a reduced size top plan view of a camera of this 
invention in the wide angle lens and Viewfinder position; 
FIG. 16 is a fragmentary front elevational view of the 
changeable aperture feature of my lensleSS Viewfinder on the 
camera of FIG. 13 when in a wide angle configuration; 

FIG. 17 is a reduced size top plan view of a camera of this 
invention in the  normal focal-length lens and Viewfinder 
position; 

FIG. 18 is a fragmentary front elevational view of the 
changeable aperture feature of my lensleSS Viewfinder on the 
camera of FIG. 13 when in a normal focal-length configu 
ration; 

FIG. 19 is a reduced size top plan view of a camera of this 
invention in the telephoto lens and viewfinder position; and 
FIG. 20 is a fragmentary front elevational view of the 
changeable aperture feature of my lensleSS Viewfinder on the 
camera of FIG. 13 when in a telephoto configuration. 

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE 

INVENTION 

65 

Disclosed in the drawing, FIGS. 4, 5–7, 8-9, is my basic 
viewfinder, which uses no lenses, but which forms a bright 
image  of a  reticle  at  the  distance  of the  Scene  to  be 
photographed. 

S 

Transmitted light is represented in FIG. 4 with solid line 
ray traceSTL, and reflected light RL which forms the image 
of the reticle RT are shown as dashed lines. Note that there 
are two Superimposed optical paths, as in the Albada View 
finder of FIG.3, for the view of the scene, and the bright-line 
reticle. My proposed viewfinder uses reflective optics which 
can be molded as part of the front and rear walls, FW and 
RW respectively,  of the  camera body CB  FIGS. 4-6). 
Therefore, the viewfinder of my invention requires no addi 
tional parts compared to the prior art lensleSS Viewfinder of 
FIG.1. The bright image of the subject is shown Surrounded 
by a clear bright reticle in FIG. 4A. 

FIG. 4 also illustrates the field of view of a typical human 
eye as defined by the lines FOV(eye) and the field of view 
of the viewfinder FOV(v?) as it  is  defined, both in the 
Vertical plane. A similar relationship exists in the horizontal 
plane. 

It  should  be  noted that  the  optical  path  through  the 
viewfinder in the field of view of the viewfinder as defined 
above is free of any refractive or other optical elements, i.e., 
an open hole defined by the normal opaque camera body. 
This means that in the manufacture of cameras employing 
the invention, the camera body defines the entire viewfinder 
and it provides a reticle image inside the field of view of the 
user's eye FOV(eye) and is Superimposed upon the field of 
view of the viewfinder FOV(v?), achieving the same results 
as more complex and expensive lens viewfinders. Unseen 
directly by the user is the actual reticle RT located on the 
inside Surface of the rear wall RW, or at least on a front 
facing Surface inside the viewfinder cavity of the camera 
body CB. 

There is no directly exposed transparent Surface which 
may become Soiled or Scratched, and no Subassembly opera 
tions for the Viewfinder are required in manufacturing. At 
most, a metalizing operation will be required for the concave 
mirror and reticle of the viewfinder. 

Visible  to  the  viewfinder  user  is  the  concave  mirror 
surface RC on the front wall FW or on a rear facing surface 
surrounding the front opening FO of the viewfinder. This 
concave mirror RC provides the reticle image viewed by the 
user without any minification of the image Seen through the 
viewfinder. 

In one embodiment of this invention shown in FIGS. 8 
and 9 and described below, the front opening FO is actually 
a number of Small openings with the mirrored inner Surface 
on the front wall Surrounding the array of Small openings. 
FIG. 5 shows an interior perspective view of the view 
finder portion of the camera body CB, showing the reticle 
RT formed around the rear opening, RO, and the concave 
mirror RC molded as a spherically-curved Surface on the 
inside face of the front opening FO. FIG. 6 shows an exterior 
of the  viewfinder portion  of the  camera body CB. The 
reticle/mirror combination RT/RC forms a sharply-focused 
image of the reticle RT So that it appears to be fixed on and 
placed into the Scene in accordance with well known camera 
design practice. 

The viewfinder of my invention is basically an open hole 
through the front and rear walls of the camera body. The 
optical elements of the viewfinder exist only at the perim 
eters of the openings on the front and rear walls of the 
camera and outside of the field of view FOV(v?) of the 
Viewfinder. A concave generally Spherical Surface, is molded 
on a protrusion on the interior face of the front camera wall 
FW. The concave surface is preferably flashed with alumi 
num or  other  metallizing  material  to  make it  a  highly 
reflective Surface RC. 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

6,122,455 

6 

The reticle RT is formed similarly on the interior surface 
of the rear wall RW of the camera body CB, by depositing 
a reflective frame (the same operation used to create the 
reflective coating RC on the interior of the front wall FW and 
incidentally, to create the  reticle  on the  positive lens an 
Albada viewfinder). 

It should be noted that minification of an image, in prior 
art  viewfinders,  is  not  a  user  advantage, but  done  for 
engineering reasons, to be able  to  use Small viewfinder 
lenses and maintain the field of view which matches that of 
the camera taking lens. A one-to-one, or full size, image, 
before my invention has usually been implemented in only 
the Single lens refleX cameras, using a complex and expen 
Sive lens and prism System or in the least expensive Single 
use  cameras which have not provided sharply  focussed 
frame lenses. 

The simple prior art hole-type viewfinder of FIG. 1 is 
incapable of providing a Sharply-imaged frame of reference. 
Use of the reverse-Galilean or Albada viewfinders of FIGS. 
2 and 3, respectively, precludes 1:1 size imaging because 
they use lenses which inherently minify the image. 

A variation of the Albada viewfinder could be made in 
which the front and back glass or plastic elements were 
curved meniscus elements which had no refractive power; 
however, this would save no cost over the traditional Albada 
design. 

My proposed lensleSS Viewfinder does not result in mini 
fication;  however, provides a  Sharply  imaged  frame  of 
reference. Thus, my lensless viewfinder provides both sim 
plification and improvement as compared with other basic 
Viewfinders,  and costs virtually  the  same as  the  Simple 
through-hole type viewfinder, i.e. nothing, except reflective 
metallizing; however it creates a rectangular frame which 
appears to be Superimposed on the Scene. 

The reticle RT shown in these drawings, FIGS. 4 and 5, 
is  a raised Surface, with the thought that the  raising the 
Surface would facilitate printing it with white, or coating it 
with aluminum to increase  its  reflectivity.  However, the 
reticle RT can be raised or flush depending on the physical 
Size  of the  camera and the  optical  requirements of the 
Viewfinder. A precise Smooth Surface produced in the injec 
tion  molding process of the  opaque camera body  may 
provide sufficient reflectivity  to provide a usable  reticle 
image without metallizing. 

It may be desirable to have a viewfinder which shows 
slightly  more  of  the  scene  than  will  actually  be 
photographed, to help the photographer compose the picture. 
This lensless viewfinder can be configured with the spherical 
mirror frame in the form of a thin Strip generally Surrounding 
the front opening FO and Supported on Struts S, within a 
larger opening FO in the front wall FW, as shown in FIG. 7 
which is an exterior of the viewfinder portion of the camera 
body CB. The result of this embodiment is illustrated in FIG. 
7A in which a portion of the Scene appears Surrounding the 
reticle. 

Another embodiment of my invention, shown in FIGS. 8 
and 9, takes the form of the substantially spherical mirror 
FSM, on the interior face of the front wall FW of camera 
body CB, being perforated with hundreds of small holes H, 
approximately 1 mm acroSS, which creates the front opening 
FO. The holes H, are close enough to the eye to be out of 
focus and provide an apparent continuous images of the 
transmitted Scene and of the reflected reticle RT. The ratio of 
holes H to surrounding front wall area FW can be varied to 
increase the transmitted light, or the reflectance of the rear 
reticle RT. 

7 

All described techniques are aided by the Small Scale of 
the optics and Supports relative to the diameter of the pupil 
in the eye. The eye Sees the focused image of the projected 
reticle  RT overlapping the Scene within the out-of-focus 
inner edge of the front window FW. However, the structure 
of the front optics (support struts S in FIG. 7, and small holes 
H in  FIGS. 8 and 9, etc.)  are out of focus and do not 
appreciably interfere with the use of the viewfinder. 
In each of the  figures of the  drawings showing these 
embodiments, only the viewfinder portion of the camera is 
illustrated for clarity of understanding. A typical arrange 
ment in a single use camera is illustrated in FIG. 12. The 
camera taking lens assembly, the Shutter, and film advance, 
all of which are in accordance with established practice, and 
constituting image captive means are contained within the 
camera body CB and sealed from ambient light from the 
viewfinder reaching the film by internal walls, side wall SW 
and lower wall LW provide this sealing function. Recogniz 
ing that current developments in cameras, digital Storage of 
images replace the conventional film and film advances. Any 
form of image capture means, film or electronic Storage is 
usable with this invention. 

15 

FIGS. 10 and 11 show an embodiment where greater eye 
relief for the user is provided, particularly useful for eye 
glass wearers. In this case the reticle  RT is Supported on 
radial reticle Supports RS of FIG. 10, similar to the mirror 
supports  S of FIG. 7.  To  minimize  obscuration  of the 
reflected image of reticle  RT and supports RS, they are 
molded radial to the optical axis. 

This insures minimum observation by the radial Supports 

of the viewed scene. 

25 

This allows  the  user to  move the  eye  without being 
restricted to view only through the rear opening, and Still See 
the reflected image of the reticle. The reticle is so thin and 
out of focus as to be un-noticeable. 

The reticle supports RS are struts or ribs which extend 
generally  radially  with  respect to  the  center of the  rear 
opening. As shown in FIG. 10, the reticle supports RS are 
preferably located at each corner of the rear opening and mid 
points of the reticle top, bottom and sides. The reticle RT 
itself comprises a thin rectangular frame with its major croSS 
Section generally paralleling the dashed reflective light ray 
lines So as to minimize interference with the view of the 
reticle image outside of the reticle in the perimeter opening 
PO. This aids the user in framing the subject of the scene 
whether or not wearing eye glasses. 

When this invention is applied to a more complex camera 
Such as one which provides various aspect ratioS or Zoom 
operation, there is a need to change the reticle Size to provide 
a  matching field of View through the Viewfinder, again, 
without the  use  of lenses.  This is  accomplished by the 
embodiment of this invention as illustrated in FIGS. 13-20. 
Refer now to FIG. 13 in combination with FIG. 14 to see 
a  variable-reticle  lensleSS-Viewfinder  Zoom-lens  camera 
generally designated C including a camera body CB with a 
front wall FW, a rear wall RW, a lens assembly ZL in the 
front wall FW and containing a suitable holder for a film 
cassette FC and Suitable film advance mechanism (unshown) 
to advance film F behind the lens ZL for exposure upon 
operation of a Suitable shutter(unshown) under the control of 
shutter release SR of FIG. 12. The design of taking lens 
assemblies, shutter mechanisms and film advances for cam 
eras are well known and will be Selected in accordance with 
well known design principles in the photographic industry 
therefore are not illustrated here. 

The viewfinder of this embodiment is contained within 
the opaque camera body CB in the chamber defined by the 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

6,122,455 

8 

exterior walls of the camera body CB and the interior side 
wall SW and lower wall LW with a rear opening RO in the 
camera rear wall RW, a front opening FO in the camera front 
wall FW, and a concave mirror RC similar to the embodi 
ment of FIG. 4. The reticle RT of FIGS. 4-6 is, however, 
replaced by an adjustable or movable reticle which changes 
in size with changes in focal length of the lens assembly ZL. 
The reticle of this embodiment is, preferably, formed from 
two relatively movable masks, designated for convenience 
based upon their relative  location in the embodiment of 
FIGS. 14, 16, 18 and 20 as the bottom left reticle BLR on 
the bottom left mask BLM, and the top right reticle TRR 
located on the top right mask TRM. The two masks BLM 
and TRM are each notched to define a variable size rectan 
gular opening when Superimposed and moved in diagonally 
opposing directions of the double ended arrow in FIG. 14. 
The L-shaped inner edges of the notches of the respective 
masks BLM and TRM facing the front opening FO, have a 
bright or reflective  Surface  Similar to  the corresponding 
surfaces of the embodiment of FIG. 4 to be distinguishable 
from the normal black background of the interior of the 
camera body CB. The masks BLM and TRM each include 
a clearance hole GS and an actuator pin slot APS. The 
actuator pin slots APS each engage a respective actuator pin 
left  LAP or right RAP of FIGS. 13, 16, 18 and 20 on a 
rotating disc RD to move the two masks BLM and TRM 
Simultaneously in opposite directions to open or close the 
reticle formed by the visible reticle surfaces BLR and TRR. 
Movement of the actuator pins LAP and RAP is accom 
plished Since they are connected to a regulating disc RD 
which is rotatably mounted for rotation within a recessed 
cylindrical cavity in the rear wall RW of the camera body 
CB. The regulating disc RD is coupled to the lens mecha 
nism by any one of a number of gear or linkage mechanisms. 
Suffice it to say, the masks BLM and TRM are both coupled 
to the Zoom adjustment of lens assembly ZL for coordinated 
movement therewith.  Further, the overall position of the 
mask mechanism can be collectively shifted to compensate 
for parallax errors when close focusing, and differentially 
shifted to accommodate various aspect ratioS. 

In FIG. 13 the eye of the user is indicated adjacent to the 
rear opening RO, and ambient light, from the Scene to be 
photographed, is indicated by the parallel lines TL with the 
outermost two lines indicating the light rays Striking the 
reticle  Surfaces  BLR and TRR. Light reflected from the 
Surface RC of the concave mirror CM from the reticle and 
to the user's eye is illustrated by the thin dashed lines of FIG. 
13. 

The operation of this invention in a Zoom or Selective 
focal length camera is illustrated in FIGS. 13–20. FIGS. 15, 
17 and 19 are simplified top views of the same camera C in 
a wide angle, normal and telephoto adjustment, respectively. 
Each of these figures show the matching horizontal fields of 
view for the camera taking lens ZL and for the viewfinder. 
The change in focal length of the taking lens is indicated by 
the degree of extension of the lens while the adjustment of 
the viewfinder is totally within the camera C as described 
above in connection with FIGS. 13 and 14. More precise 
showing of the change of positions of the maskS BLM and 
TRM and the change in sizes of the reticle is illustrated in 
FIGS. 16, 18 and 20. In these figures, the masks BLM and 
TRM are shown as secured for sliding movement under tabs 
Twhich preferably are molded integrally as a part of the rear 
wall RW of the camera body CB. Movement of the masks 
BLM and TRM is  in  the  direction  of the  arrows of the 
respective drawings. The relative position of the regulating 
disc RD and its extent of rotation for each lens position is 
indicated by the position of the actuator pins LAP and RAP. 

6,122,455 

An alternate method of coupling the viewfinder reticle 
adjustment mechanism to the lens assembly is shown in 
FIGS. 16, 18 and 20. It includes an actuator arm. A with one 
end coupled to actuator pin LAP and the other end including 
an attachment means for coupling arm A to the lens Zoom 
adjustment mechanism(unshown) to be moved in the direc 
tion of the arrows as the lens Zooms. 

In comparing FIGS. 16, 18 and 20, note the change in 
extent of overlapping of the masks BLM and TRM, with 
corresponding change in size of the reticle of the Viewfinder. 
The above described embodiments of the present inven 
tion are merely descriptive of its principles and are not to be 
considered limiting.  The Scope of the present invention 
instead shall be determined from the scope of the following 
claims including their equivalents. 

I claim: 
1. A viewfinder for use by a user to See a desired Scene 

an opaque hollow body including a front wall and a rear 

comprising: 

wall; 

a viewfinder opening in Said front wall; 
an eyepiece opening in Said rear wall; 
Said front wall viewfinder opening and Said rear wall 
eyepiece opening generally defining the field of view of 
the viewfinder; 

a reticle defining means within Said hollow body facing 

said front wall; 

a concave mirror Surrounding Said viewfinder opening of 
Said front wall directed at Said reticle defining means, 
whereby Said concave mirror produces an image of thee 
reticle defined by Said reticle defining means, the image 
of the reticle being visible through said eyepiece open 
ing and appearing within the field of View of a user's 
eye looking through Said viewfinder; 

Said Viewfinder constituting an open hole defined by Said 

opaque hollow body. 

2. A viewfinder in accordance with claim 1 wherein Said 
reticle defining means is a metallized coating on Said rear 
wall. 

3. A viewfinder in accordance with claim 1 wherein said 
concave mirror is a metallized coating on Said front wall. 
4. A viewfinder In accordance with claim 1 wherein said 
front opening comprises a number of openings. 

5. A viewfinder in accordance with claim 1 wherein said 
concave mirror is a thin Strip generally Surrounding Said 
front opening and Spaced from the rest of the front wall by 
a Series of Struts  with perimeter openings therebetween, 
whereby portions of a scene  in  front of the  viewfinder 
outside of Said concave mirror may be viewed by a user 
through the perimeter openings in  the  area of the Struts 
outside of Said eyepiece opening and Said viewfinder front 
opening in Said front wall. 

6.  A lensleSS Viewfinder camera having a taking lens 
aimed in a direction for use by a user viewing a Subject 
through the viewfinder comprising: 

an opaque camera body defining a front wall and a rear 
wall  and enclosing  taking  lens  means facing in  a 
direction, Shutter and film advance means therein; 

Said opaque camera body defining a viewfinder opening in 
Said front wall facing generally in the same direction as 
the taking lens means of the camera; 

Said opaque camera body defining an eyepiece opening in 

the rear wall thereof; 

Said front viewfinder opening and Said rear wall eyepiece 
opening defining the field of view of the viewfinder; 

1O 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

10 

Said opaque camera body including a wall extending from 
Said rear wall to Said front wall Sealing Said viewfinder 
from Said taking lens means, shutter and film advance 
means, 

means within Said opaque camera body facing Said front 
wall viewfinder opening between Said eyepiece open 
ing and viewfinder opening outside of the Viewfinder 
field of view defining a reticle; 

and means within Said opaque camera body between Said 
Viewfinder opening and Said eyepiece opening outside 
of The field of view of the viewfinder for reflecting an 
image of Said  reticle  visible  through said eyepiece 
opening, 

Said  viewfinder defining an optical path through Said 
Viewfinder opening from a user's eye to a Subject, 
through Said opaque camera body, in which Said View 
finder of Said opaque camera body is  free  from the 
presence of glass or plastic optically  refractive ele 
mentS. 

7. A lensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said reflecting means comprises a concave mirror 
at least partially Surrounding Said viewfinder opening of Said 
camera body. 

8. A lensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said  reflecting  means comprises a  metallized 
coating on the inner Side of Said front wall of Said camera 
body. 

9. A lensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said viewfinder opening in Said front wall com 
prises a number of Small holes. 

10.  A lensless  viewfinder  camera in  accordance  with 
claim 9 wherein Said camera body SpaceS Said front wall 
close enough to a user's eye So that said discrete openings 
are out of focus to a user, and together the discrete openings 
present the appearance of a single viewfinder opening when 
a user is viewing a Subject through the viewfinder. 

11. AlensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said means for defining Said reticle comprises a 
portion of the inner Side of Said rear wall of Said camera 
body. 

12. A lensleSS  Viewfinder camera  in  accordance  with 
claim 6 wherein Said means defining a reticle comprises a 
metallized portion of Said camera body Surrounding Said 
eyepiece opening. 

13. A lensleSS  Viewfinder camera  in  accordance  with 
claim 12 wherein Said reticle image reflecting means com 
prises a generally rectangular frame portion of Said camera 
body to define a Substantially continuous rectangle around 
Said viewfinder opening, and 

Support means Spacing Said rectangular frame from the 

remainder of Said camera body. 

14. A lensleSS  Viewfinder camera  in  accordance  with 
claim 13 wherein Said Support means comprises a Series of 
Struts integral with Said camera body. 

15. A camera for use by a photographer to photograph a 

subject within the field of view comprising: 

a camera body; 
a viewfinder; 
a taking lens assembly defining a field  of view to be 

photographed; and 

means for capturing an image by Said taking lens assem 

bly; 

wherein said viewfinder is defined by said camera body 

including, 
a first opening in Said camera body on the same Side 

thereof as Said taking lens assembly; 

6,122,455 

11 

a Second opening in Said camera body on the opposite 
Side thereof from Said taking lens assembly defining 
an eyepiece opening for Said camera; 

Said camera body including Said first and Second open 
ings defining a viewfinder with Substantially  the 
Same field of View as of the taking lens assembly; 
means within Said camera body defining a reticle in 
Said viewfinder Substantially Surrounding Said Sec 
ond opening, and 

reflective means within Said camera body outside of the 
field of view of the viewfinder and within the field of 
View of a user's eye directed at Said reticle  for 
reflecting an image of Said reticle Visible through 
Said Second opening. 

16. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
reticle is defined by an inner wall of Said camera body facing 
Said first opening. 

17. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
reflective means comprises a concave mirror focussed on 
Said reticle. 

18. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
reflective  means comprises a  metallized  Surface  on  the 
portion of Said camera body defining Said first opening. 

19. A camera in accordance with claim 18 wherein said 
metallized Surface Surrounds Said first opening within Said 
camera body. 

20. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
camera body defines a wall extending from Said Same side 
as Said first opening to Said opposite Side thereof for opti 
cally isolating Said viewfinder from Said taking lens assem 
bly and image capture means of Said camera. 
comprising: 

21. In a camera for use by a user to photograph a Scene 

a camera body having a front and rear face; 
an adjustable focal length lens assembly on the front of 

Said camera body; 

a shutter and Shutter release assembly; 
a film compartment; 
a film advance assembly; and 
a viewfinder; 
the  improvement therein  wherein  said  viewfinder  is 

defined by Said camera body and includes: 
a first opening in Said camera body on the front face 

thereof; 

a Second opening in Said camera body on the rear face 
of Said camera body, Said Second opening defining an 
eyepiece opening for Said camera; 

Said first opening and Said Second opening defining the 

field of view of the viewfinder; 

means defining a reticle for Said viewfinder, 
Said reticle  defining means comprising at least  two 
relatively movable members including reticle defin 
ing Surfaces within Said camera body and having 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

12 

and 

controllable degree of Separation of the reticle defin 
ing Surfaces to vary the dimensions of Said reticle; 
means for moving Said relatively movable members, 
reflective means in Said camera body outside of the 
field  of view of the  viewfinder for reflecting  an 
image of Said reticle to a user through said Second 
opening. 

22. The combination in accordance with claim 21 includ 
ing means for coupling Said reticle defining means to Said 
adjustable focal length lens assembly for changing of reticle 
Size related to changes in the focal length of adjustable focal 
length lens assembly. 

23. The combination in accordance with claim 21 wherein 
Said relatively movable reticle defining members are two in 
number and each of Said members includes two adjacent 
perpendicular edges of a rectangular reticle and one corner 
thereof and said  members together define  the  third and 
fourth diagonally opposite corners of Said reticle. 
24. The combination in accordance with claim 23 wherein 
Said  movable Surfaces  include  a  reflecting  reticle  on  a 
contrasting background. 

25. The combination in accordance with claim 24 wherein 
Said contrasting background of Said Surfaces correspond to 
the background color of the interior of Said camera body in 
the region of Said viewfinder. 

26. In a camera for use by a user comprising: 
a camera body having a front and rear face; 
a taking lens assembly on the front of Said camera body; 
image capture means, and 
a viewfinder; 
wherein said viewfinder is defined by said camera body 
and includes: 
a first opening in said camera body on the front face 

thereof; 

a Second opening in Said camera body on the rear face 
of Said camera body, Said Second opening defining a 
user viewing opening for Said camera; 

means defining a reticle for Said viewfinder, and 
reflective means for reflecting an image of Said reticle 

the improvement therein Said reticle  defining means 

to a user in the region of Said Second opening, 
comprises: 
a portion of Said camera body having a first Surface 

facing Said reflective means, and 

Support means for positioning Said reflective  means 
Spaced from the remainder of Said camera body to 
allow the viewing of a portion of the Scene Surround 
ing the image of the reticle. 

27. The combination in accordance with claim 26 wherein 
Said Support means comprise a plurality  of Struts which 
connect the camera body to Said reflective means at Spaced 
locations around the periphery of Said reflective means. 

k 

k 

k 

k 

k 

