DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE 

INVENTION 

65 

Disclosed in the drawing, FIGS. 4, 5–7, 8-9, is my basic 
viewfinder, which uses no lenses, but which forms a bright 
image  of a  reticle  at  the  distance  of the  Scene  to  be 
photographed. 

S 

Transmitted light is represented in FIG. 4 with solid line 
ray traceSTL, and reflected light RL which forms the image 
of the reticle RT are shown as dashed lines. Note that there 
are two Superimposed optical paths, as in the Albada View 
finder of FIG.3, for the view of the scene, and the bright-line 
reticle. My proposed viewfinder uses reflective optics which 
can be molded as part of the front and rear walls, FW and 
RW respectively,  of the  camera body CB  FIGS. 4-6). 
Therefore, the viewfinder of my invention requires no addi 
tional parts compared to the prior art lensleSS Viewfinder of 
FIG.1. The bright image of the subject is shown Surrounded 
by a clear bright reticle in FIG. 4A. 

FIG. 4 also illustrates the field of view of a typical human 
eye as defined by the lines FOV(eye) and the field of view 
of the viewfinder FOV(v?) as it  is  defined, both in the 
Vertical plane. A similar relationship exists in the horizontal 
plane. 

It  should  be  noted that  the  optical  path  through  the 
viewfinder in the field of view of the viewfinder as defined 
above is free of any refractive or other optical elements, i.e., 
an open hole defined by the normal opaque camera body. 
This means that in the manufacture of cameras employing 
the invention, the camera body defines the entire viewfinder 
and it provides a reticle image inside the field of view of the 
user's eye FOV(eye) and is Superimposed upon the field of 
view of the viewfinder FOV(v?), achieving the same results 
as more complex and expensive lens viewfinders. Unseen 
directly by the user is the actual reticle RT located on the 
inside Surface of the rear wall RW, or at least on a front 
facing Surface inside the viewfinder cavity of the camera 
body CB. 

There is no directly exposed transparent Surface which 
may become Soiled or Scratched, and no Subassembly opera 
tions for the Viewfinder are required in manufacturing. At 
most, a metalizing operation will be required for the concave 
mirror and reticle of the viewfinder. 

Visible  to  the  viewfinder  user  is  the  concave  mirror 
surface RC on the front wall FW or on a rear facing surface 
surrounding the front opening FO of the viewfinder. This 
concave mirror RC provides the reticle image viewed by the 
user without any minification of the image Seen through the 
viewfinder. 

In one embodiment of this invention shown in FIGS. 8 
and 9 and described below, the front opening FO is actually 
a number of Small openings with the mirrored inner Surface 
on the front wall Surrounding the array of Small openings. 
FIG. 5 shows an interior perspective view of the view 
finder portion of the camera body CB, showing the reticle 
RT formed around the rear opening, RO, and the concave 
mirror RC molded as a spherically-curved Surface on the 
inside face of the front opening FO. FIG. 6 shows an exterior 
of the  viewfinder portion  of the  camera body CB. The 
reticle/mirror combination RT/RC forms a sharply-focused 
image of the reticle RT So that it appears to be fixed on and 
placed into the Scene in accordance with well known camera 
design practice. 

The viewfinder of my invention is basically an open hole 
through the front and rear walls of the camera body. The 
optical elements of the viewfinder exist only at the perim 
eters of the openings on the front and rear walls of the 
camera and outside of the field of view FOV(v?) of the 
Viewfinder. A concave generally Spherical Surface, is molded 
on a protrusion on the interior face of the front camera wall 
FW. The concave surface is preferably flashed with alumi 
num or  other  metallizing  material  to  make it  a  highly 
reflective Surface RC. 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

6,122,455 

6 

The reticle RT is formed similarly on the interior surface 
of the rear wall RW of the camera body CB, by depositing 
a reflective frame (the same operation used to create the 
reflective coating RC on the interior of the front wall FW and 
incidentally, to create the  reticle  on the  positive lens an 
Albada viewfinder). 

It should be noted that minification of an image, in prior 
art  viewfinders,  is  not  a  user  advantage, but  done  for 
engineering reasons, to be able  to  use Small viewfinder 
lenses and maintain the field of view which matches that of 
the camera taking lens. A one-to-one, or full size, image, 
before my invention has usually been implemented in only 
the Single lens refleX cameras, using a complex and expen 
Sive lens and prism System or in the least expensive Single 
use  cameras which have not provided sharply  focussed 
frame lenses. 

The simple prior art hole-type viewfinder of FIG. 1 is 
incapable of providing a Sharply-imaged frame of reference. 
Use of the reverse-Galilean or Albada viewfinders of FIGS. 
2 and 3, respectively, precludes 1:1 size imaging because 
they use lenses which inherently minify the image. 

A variation of the Albada viewfinder could be made in 
which the front and back glass or plastic elements were 
curved meniscus elements which had no refractive power; 
however, this would save no cost over the traditional Albada 
design. 

My proposed lensleSS Viewfinder does not result in mini 
fication;  however, provides a  Sharply  imaged  frame  of 
reference. Thus, my lensless viewfinder provides both sim 
plification and improvement as compared with other basic 
Viewfinders,  and costs virtually  the  same as  the  Simple 
through-hole type viewfinder, i.e. nothing, except reflective 
metallizing; however it creates a rectangular frame which 
appears to be Superimposed on the Scene. 

The reticle RT shown in these drawings, FIGS. 4 and 5, 
is  a raised Surface, with the thought that the  raising the 
Surface would facilitate printing it with white, or coating it 
with aluminum to increase  its  reflectivity.  However, the 
reticle RT can be raised or flush depending on the physical 
Size  of the  camera and the  optical  requirements of the 
Viewfinder. A precise Smooth Surface produced in the injec 
tion  molding process of the  opaque camera body  may 
provide sufficient reflectivity  to provide a usable  reticle 
image without metallizing. 

It may be desirable to have a viewfinder which shows 
slightly  more  of  the  scene  than  will  actually  be 
photographed, to help the photographer compose the picture. 
This lensless viewfinder can be configured with the spherical 
mirror frame in the form of a thin Strip generally Surrounding 
the front opening FO and Supported on Struts S, within a 
larger opening FO in the front wall FW, as shown in FIG. 7 
which is an exterior of the viewfinder portion of the camera 
body CB. The result of this embodiment is illustrated in FIG. 
7A in which a portion of the Scene appears Surrounding the 
reticle. 

Another embodiment of my invention, shown in FIGS. 8 
and 9, takes the form of the substantially spherical mirror 
FSM, on the interior face of the front wall FW of camera 
body CB, being perforated with hundreds of small holes H, 
approximately 1 mm acroSS, which creates the front opening 
FO. The holes H, are close enough to the eye to be out of 
focus and provide an apparent continuous images of the 
transmitted Scene and of the reflected reticle RT. The ratio of 
holes H to surrounding front wall area FW can be varied to 
increase the transmitted light, or the reflectance of the rear 
reticle RT. 

7 

All described techniques are aided by the Small Scale of 
the optics and Supports relative to the diameter of the pupil 
in the eye. The eye Sees the focused image of the projected 
reticle  RT overlapping the Scene within the out-of-focus 
inner edge of the front window FW. However, the structure 
of the front optics (support struts S in FIG. 7, and small holes 
H in  FIGS. 8 and 9, etc.)  are out of focus and do not 
appreciably interfere with the use of the viewfinder. 
In each of the  figures of the  drawings showing these 
embodiments, only the viewfinder portion of the camera is 
illustrated for clarity of understanding. A typical arrange 
ment in a single use camera is illustrated in FIG. 12. The 
camera taking lens assembly, the Shutter, and film advance, 
all of which are in accordance with established practice, and 
constituting image captive means are contained within the 
camera body CB and sealed from ambient light from the 
viewfinder reaching the film by internal walls, side wall SW 
and lower wall LW provide this sealing function. Recogniz 
ing that current developments in cameras, digital Storage of 
images replace the conventional film and film advances. Any 
form of image capture means, film or electronic Storage is 
usable with this invention. 

15 

FIGS. 10 and 11 show an embodiment where greater eye 
relief for the user is provided, particularly useful for eye 
glass wearers. In this case the reticle  RT is Supported on 
radial reticle Supports RS of FIG. 10, similar to the mirror 
supports  S of FIG. 7.  To  minimize  obscuration  of the 
reflected image of reticle  RT and supports RS, they are 
molded radial to the optical axis. 

This insures minimum observation by the radial Supports 

of the viewed scene. 

25 

This allows  the  user to  move the  eye  without being 
restricted to view only through the rear opening, and Still See 
the reflected image of the reticle. The reticle is so thin and 
out of focus as to be un-noticeable. 

The reticle supports RS are struts or ribs which extend 
generally  radially  with  respect to  the  center of the  rear 
opening. As shown in FIG. 10, the reticle supports RS are 
preferably located at each corner of the rear opening and mid 
points of the reticle top, bottom and sides. The reticle RT 
itself comprises a thin rectangular frame with its major croSS 
Section generally paralleling the dashed reflective light ray 
lines So as to minimize interference with the view of the 
reticle image outside of the reticle in the perimeter opening 
PO. This aids the user in framing the subject of the scene 
whether or not wearing eye glasses. 

When this invention is applied to a more complex camera 
Such as one which provides various aspect ratioS or Zoom 
operation, there is a need to change the reticle Size to provide 
a  matching field of View through the Viewfinder, again, 
without the  use  of lenses.  This is  accomplished by the 
embodiment of this invention as illustrated in FIGS. 13-20. 
Refer now to FIG. 13 in combination with FIG. 14 to see 
a  variable-reticle  lensleSS-Viewfinder  Zoom-lens  camera 
generally designated C including a camera body CB with a 
front wall FW, a rear wall RW, a lens assembly ZL in the 
front wall FW and containing a suitable holder for a film 
cassette FC and Suitable film advance mechanism (unshown) 
to advance film F behind the lens ZL for exposure upon 
operation of a Suitable shutter(unshown) under the control of 
shutter release SR of FIG. 12. The design of taking lens 
assemblies, shutter mechanisms and film advances for cam 
eras are well known and will be Selected in accordance with 
well known design principles in the photographic industry 
therefore are not illustrated here. 

The viewfinder of this embodiment is contained within 
the opaque camera body CB in the chamber defined by the 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

6,122,455 

8 

exterior walls of the camera body CB and the interior side 
wall SW and lower wall LW with a rear opening RO in the 
camera rear wall RW, a front opening FO in the camera front 
wall FW, and a concave mirror RC similar to the embodi 
ment of FIG. 4. The reticle RT of FIGS. 4-6 is, however, 
replaced by an adjustable or movable reticle which changes 
in size with changes in focal length of the lens assembly ZL. 
The reticle of this embodiment is, preferably, formed from 
two relatively movable masks, designated for convenience 
based upon their relative  location in the embodiment of 
FIGS. 14, 16, 18 and 20 as the bottom left reticle BLR on 
the bottom left mask BLM, and the top right reticle TRR 
located on the top right mask TRM. The two masks BLM 
and TRM are each notched to define a variable size rectan 
gular opening when Superimposed and moved in diagonally 
opposing directions of the double ended arrow in FIG. 14. 
The L-shaped inner edges of the notches of the respective 
masks BLM and TRM facing the front opening FO, have a 
bright or reflective  Surface  Similar to  the corresponding 
surfaces of the embodiment of FIG. 4 to be distinguishable 
from the normal black background of the interior of the 
camera body CB. The masks BLM and TRM each include 
a clearance hole GS and an actuator pin slot APS. The 
actuator pin slots APS each engage a respective actuator pin 
left  LAP or right RAP of FIGS. 13, 16, 18 and 20 on a 
rotating disc RD to move the two masks BLM and TRM 
Simultaneously in opposite directions to open or close the 
reticle formed by the visible reticle surfaces BLR and TRR. 
Movement of the actuator pins LAP and RAP is accom 
plished Since they are connected to a regulating disc RD 
which is rotatably mounted for rotation within a recessed 
cylindrical cavity in the rear wall RW of the camera body 
CB. The regulating disc RD is coupled to the lens mecha 
nism by any one of a number of gear or linkage mechanisms. 
Suffice it to say, the masks BLM and TRM are both coupled 
to the Zoom adjustment of lens assembly ZL for coordinated 
movement therewith.  Further, the overall position of the 
mask mechanism can be collectively shifted to compensate 
for parallax errors when close focusing, and differentially 
shifted to accommodate various aspect ratioS. 

In FIG. 13 the eye of the user is indicated adjacent to the 
rear opening RO, and ambient light, from the Scene to be 
photographed, is indicated by the parallel lines TL with the 
outermost two lines indicating the light rays Striking the 
reticle  Surfaces  BLR and TRR. Light reflected from the 
Surface RC of the concave mirror CM from the reticle and 
to the user's eye is illustrated by the thin dashed lines of FIG. 
13. 

The operation of this invention in a Zoom or Selective 
focal length camera is illustrated in FIGS. 13–20. FIGS. 15, 
17 and 19 are simplified top views of the same camera C in 
a wide angle, normal and telephoto adjustment, respectively. 
Each of these figures show the matching horizontal fields of 
view for the camera taking lens ZL and for the viewfinder. 
The change in focal length of the taking lens is indicated by 
the degree of extension of the lens while the adjustment of 
the viewfinder is totally within the camera C as described 
above in connection with FIGS. 13 and 14. More precise 
showing of the change of positions of the maskS BLM and 
TRM and the change in sizes of the reticle is illustrated in 
FIGS. 16, 18 and 20. In these figures, the masks BLM and 
TRM are shown as secured for sliding movement under tabs 
Twhich preferably are molded integrally as a part of the rear 
wall RW of the camera body CB. Movement of the masks 
BLM and TRM is  in  the  direction  of the  arrows of the 
respective drawings. The relative position of the regulating 
disc RD and its extent of rotation for each lens position is 
indicated by the position of the actuator pins LAP and RAP. 

6,122,455 

An alternate method of coupling the viewfinder reticle 
adjustment mechanism to the lens assembly is shown in 
FIGS. 16, 18 and 20. It includes an actuator arm. A with one 
end coupled to actuator pin LAP and the other end including 
an attachment means for coupling arm A to the lens Zoom 
adjustment mechanism(unshown) to be moved in the direc 
tion of the arrows as the lens Zooms. 

In comparing FIGS. 16, 18 and 20, note the change in 
extent of overlapping of the masks BLM and TRM, with 
corresponding change in size of the reticle of the Viewfinder. 
The above described embodiments of the present inven 
tion are merely descriptive of its principles and are not to be 
considered limiting.  The Scope of the present invention 
instead shall be determined from the scope of the following 
claims including their equivalents. 

