I claim: 
1. A viewfinder for use by a user to See a desired Scene 

an opaque hollow body including a front wall and a rear 

comprising: 

wall; 

a viewfinder opening in Said front wall; 
an eyepiece opening in Said rear wall; 
Said front wall viewfinder opening and Said rear wall 
eyepiece opening generally defining the field of view of 
the viewfinder; 

a reticle defining means within Said hollow body facing 

said front wall; 

a concave mirror Surrounding Said viewfinder opening of 
Said front wall directed at Said reticle defining means, 
whereby Said concave mirror produces an image of thee 
reticle defined by Said reticle defining means, the image 
of the reticle being visible through said eyepiece open 
ing and appearing within the field of View of a user's 
eye looking through Said viewfinder; 

Said Viewfinder constituting an open hole defined by Said 

opaque hollow body. 

2. A viewfinder in accordance with claim 1 wherein Said 
reticle defining means is a metallized coating on Said rear 
wall. 

3. A viewfinder in accordance with claim 1 wherein said 
concave mirror is a metallized coating on Said front wall. 
4. A viewfinder In accordance with claim 1 wherein said 
front opening comprises a number of openings. 

5. A viewfinder in accordance with claim 1 wherein said 
concave mirror is a thin Strip generally Surrounding Said 
front opening and Spaced from the rest of the front wall by 
a Series of Struts  with perimeter openings therebetween, 
whereby portions of a scene  in  front of the  viewfinder 
outside of Said concave mirror may be viewed by a user 
through the perimeter openings in  the  area of the Struts 
outside of Said eyepiece opening and Said viewfinder front 
opening in Said front wall. 

6.  A lensleSS Viewfinder camera having a taking lens 
aimed in a direction for use by a user viewing a Subject 
through the viewfinder comprising: 

an opaque camera body defining a front wall and a rear 
wall  and enclosing  taking  lens  means facing in  a 
direction, Shutter and film advance means therein; 

Said opaque camera body defining a viewfinder opening in 
Said front wall facing generally in the same direction as 
the taking lens means of the camera; 

Said opaque camera body defining an eyepiece opening in 

the rear wall thereof; 

Said front viewfinder opening and Said rear wall eyepiece 
opening defining the field of view of the viewfinder; 

1O 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

10 

Said opaque camera body including a wall extending from 
Said rear wall to Said front wall Sealing Said viewfinder 
from Said taking lens means, shutter and film advance 
means, 

means within Said opaque camera body facing Said front 
wall viewfinder opening between Said eyepiece open 
ing and viewfinder opening outside of the Viewfinder 
field of view defining a reticle; 

and means within Said opaque camera body between Said 
Viewfinder opening and Said eyepiece opening outside 
of The field of view of the viewfinder for reflecting an 
image of Said  reticle  visible  through said eyepiece 
opening, 

Said  viewfinder defining an optical path through Said 
Viewfinder opening from a user's eye to a Subject, 
through Said opaque camera body, in which Said View 
finder of Said opaque camera body is  free  from the 
presence of glass or plastic optically  refractive ele 
mentS. 

7. A lensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said reflecting means comprises a concave mirror 
at least partially Surrounding Said viewfinder opening of Said 
camera body. 

8. A lensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said  reflecting  means comprises a  metallized 
coating on the inner Side of Said front wall of Said camera 
body. 

9. A lensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said viewfinder opening in Said front wall com 
prises a number of Small holes. 

10.  A lensless  viewfinder  camera in  accordance  with 
claim 9 wherein Said camera body SpaceS Said front wall 
close enough to a user's eye So that said discrete openings 
are out of focus to a user, and together the discrete openings 
present the appearance of a single viewfinder opening when 
a user is viewing a Subject through the viewfinder. 

11. AlensleSS Viewfinder camera in accordance with claim 
6 wherein Said means for defining Said reticle comprises a 
portion of the inner Side of Said rear wall of Said camera 
body. 

12. A lensleSS  Viewfinder camera  in  accordance  with 
claim 6 wherein Said means defining a reticle comprises a 
metallized portion of Said camera body Surrounding Said 
eyepiece opening. 

13. A lensleSS  Viewfinder camera  in  accordance  with 
claim 12 wherein Said reticle image reflecting means com 
prises a generally rectangular frame portion of Said camera 
body to define a Substantially continuous rectangle around 
Said viewfinder opening, and 

Support means Spacing Said rectangular frame from the 

remainder of Said camera body. 

14. A lensleSS  Viewfinder camera  in  accordance  with 
claim 13 wherein Said Support means comprises a Series of 
Struts integral with Said camera body. 

15. A camera for use by a photographer to photograph a 

subject within the field of view comprising: 

a camera body; 
a viewfinder; 
a taking lens assembly defining a field  of view to be 

photographed; and 

means for capturing an image by Said taking lens assem 

bly; 

wherein said viewfinder is defined by said camera body 

including, 
a first opening in Said camera body on the same Side 

thereof as Said taking lens assembly; 

6,122,455 

11 

a Second opening in Said camera body on the opposite 
Side thereof from Said taking lens assembly defining 
an eyepiece opening for Said camera; 

Said camera body including Said first and Second open 
ings defining a viewfinder with Substantially  the 
Same field of View as of the taking lens assembly; 
means within Said camera body defining a reticle in 
Said viewfinder Substantially Surrounding Said Sec 
ond opening, and 

reflective means within Said camera body outside of the 
field of view of the viewfinder and within the field of 
View of a user's eye directed at Said reticle  for 
reflecting an image of Said reticle Visible through 
Said Second opening. 

16. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
reticle is defined by an inner wall of Said camera body facing 
Said first opening. 

17. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
reflective means comprises a concave mirror focussed on 
Said reticle. 

18. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
reflective  means comprises a  metallized  Surface  on  the 
portion of Said camera body defining Said first opening. 

19. A camera in accordance with claim 18 wherein said 
metallized Surface Surrounds Said first opening within Said 
camera body. 

20. A camera in accordance with claim 15 wherein said 
camera body defines a wall extending from Said Same side 
as Said first opening to Said opposite Side thereof for opti 
cally isolating Said viewfinder from Said taking lens assem 
bly and image capture means of Said camera. 
comprising: 

21. In a camera for use by a user to photograph a Scene 

a camera body having a front and rear face; 
an adjustable focal length lens assembly on the front of 

Said camera body; 

a shutter and Shutter release assembly; 
a film compartment; 
a film advance assembly; and 
a viewfinder; 
the  improvement therein  wherein  said  viewfinder  is 

defined by Said camera body and includes: 
a first opening in Said camera body on the front face 

thereof; 

a Second opening in Said camera body on the rear face 
of Said camera body, Said Second opening defining an 
eyepiece opening for Said camera; 

Said first opening and Said Second opening defining the 

field of view of the viewfinder; 

means defining a reticle for Said viewfinder, 
Said reticle  defining means comprising at least  two 
relatively movable members including reticle defin 
ing Surfaces within Said camera body and having 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

12 

and 

controllable degree of Separation of the reticle defin 
ing Surfaces to vary the dimensions of Said reticle; 
means for moving Said relatively movable members, 
reflective means in Said camera body outside of the 
field  of view of the  viewfinder for reflecting  an 
image of Said reticle to a user through said Second 
opening. 

22. The combination in accordance with claim 21 includ 
ing means for coupling Said reticle defining means to Said 
adjustable focal length lens assembly for changing of reticle 
Size related to changes in the focal length of adjustable focal 
length lens assembly. 

23. The combination in accordance with claim 21 wherein 
Said relatively movable reticle defining members are two in 
number and each of Said members includes two adjacent 
perpendicular edges of a rectangular reticle and one corner 
thereof and said  members together define  the  third and 
fourth diagonally opposite corners of Said reticle. 
24. The combination in accordance with claim 23 wherein 
Said  movable Surfaces  include  a  reflecting  reticle  on  a 
contrasting background. 

25. The combination in accordance with claim 24 wherein 
Said contrasting background of Said Surfaces correspond to 
the background color of the interior of Said camera body in 
the region of Said viewfinder. 

26. In a camera for use by a user comprising: 
a camera body having a front and rear face; 
a taking lens assembly on the front of Said camera body; 
image capture means, and 
a viewfinder; 
wherein said viewfinder is defined by said camera body 
and includes: 
a first opening in said camera body on the front face 

thereof; 

a Second opening in Said camera body on the rear face 
of Said camera body, Said Second opening defining a 
user viewing opening for Said camera; 

means defining a reticle for Said viewfinder, and 
reflective means for reflecting an image of Said reticle 

the improvement therein Said reticle  defining means 

to a user in the region of Said Second opening, 
comprises: 
a portion of Said camera body having a first Surface 

facing Said reflective means, and 

Support means for positioning Said reflective  means 
Spaced from the remainder of Said camera body to 
allow the viewing of a portion of the Scene Surround 
ing the image of the reticle. 

27. The combination in accordance with claim 26 wherein 
Said Support means comprise a plurality  of Struts which 
connect the camera body to Said reflective means at Spaced 
locations around the periphery of Said reflective means. 

k 

k 

k 

k 

k 

