BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 

Viewfinders find many uses and are of particular impor 
tance in cameras to aid the photographer in framing the 
Subject. In the past, very inexpensive viewfinders have not 
provided an accurate means to indicate to the photographer 
the aim of the camera. And the most accurate and capable 
viewfinders, found in S70-300 point-and-shoot cameras, are 
too expensive for current S9-S15 single-use cameras. In the 
very least expensive cameras of the Single-use camera type, 
an optical viewfinder is dispensed with, providing only a 
hole through the camera which provides virtually no accu 
racy in aiming the camera. In order to provide accurate 
framing, Viewfinders have been used which require the use 
of a minimum of two lenses, to which reflective optical 
coatings are added (the Albada viewfinder). 

A number of viewfinders have been devised. The follow 
ing  table  describes  various  viewfinders  used  in  Simple 
cameras, including point-and-shoot, and Single-use cameras: 

Summary of existing low cost viewfinders: 

FORMS 

IMAGE OF 

TYPE 

FRAME  COMMENTS 

Large hole 
through camera 

Small hole in 
rear wall of 
camera. Large 
hole through 
front. FIG. 1 

Reverse- 
Galilean 
Viewfinder, 
FIGS. 2 and 2A 

AIbada 
Viewfinder, 
FIGS. 3 and 3A 

No 

No 

No 

Yes 

Pros: costs nothing. 
Cons: Frame line out of focus. Not 
accurate. Acceptable for only the 
least expensive cameras. 
Comments: Small hole near eye acts as 
a pin-hole lens. 
Pros: Image of scene and front frame 
sharp. No motion parallax between 
frame and scene. 
Cons: Not usable by eye-glasses 
wearers. Image is dim. Has limited 
field view. 
Pros: Relatively inexpensive. 
Cons: Adds cost of lenses and 
assembly. Lenses collect dirt, finger 
prints and scratches. Image is 
minified making it harder to see 
Edges of frame are out of focus. Eye 
motion causes parallax errors. 
Comments: Created by adding 
reflective coatings to reverse 
Galilean viewfinder lenses. 
Pros: Bright rectangular frame is 
imaged in the scene. No motion 
parallax between frame and scene. 
Cons: Costs of lenses and assembly. 
Lenses collect dirt, finger prints and 
scratches. Image is minified making it 
harder to see. 

The  reverse-Galilean  viewfinder,  FIG.  2,  so  named 
because it makes use of one positive and one negative lens, 
as Galileo used in the first telescope. However, in reverse 
Galilean viewfinders, the  order of the lenses is  reversed 
which minifies the image. 

The Albada viewfinder as illustrated in FIG. 3 uses the 
Same lenses of the reverse Galilean Viewfinder, but adds a 

1O 

15 

25 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

2 

reflective coating to the concave Surface of the negative lens 
to act as a magnifying mirror. Also a frame or reticle is 
formed on the interior Surface of the positive lens, usually by 
metal deposition. Two Superimposed images are formed, (1) 
the lenses refract transmitted light to create a minified image 
of the scene, and (2) some light reflects off of the reticle 
forward to the concave Surface of the front lens, where it is 
reflected (and focused) rearward to the eye. The images of 
the Scene, and of the reticle, appear to be Superimposed at a 
comfortable viewing distance of about 10 feet. 

In each of these types of prior art cameras which are 
represented in the accompanying drawings, FIGS. 1-3, the 
field of view of the viewfinder is represented in the vertical 
dimension as the space between the lines  FOV(v?) and 
typical images Seen therein are represented by FIGS. 1A, 2A 
and 3A, respectively. 

The field of view of the user's eye is, of course, larger than 
that of the camera viewfinder and is represented in these 
Same figures in the vertical plane by the Space between the 
lines FOV(eye). 

Many cameras, including low cost point and shoot cam 
eras provide Zoom capability. For Such applications, a reticle 
is even more important to accurately frame the photograph. 
In the photo finishing business, a cropping aid is used 
which consists of a pair of planar right angled notched sheets 
which are movable to define a variable size exposure rect 
angle. These two sheets, determine the limits of the Scene 
and crop the final reproduction. In certain complex lens type 
ViewfinderS Similar planar masking devices have been used. 
This type of adjustment has not, heretofore, been applied to 
a lensleSS Viewfinder. 

