BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING 

This invention may be more clearly understood with the 
following detailed description and by reference to the draw 
ings in which: 

FIG. 1 is a transverse Sectional view through a prior art 
lensleSS Viewfinder having a large opening at the front of a 
camera and a Small eyepiece opening at the rear and a user's 
eye with the field of view of the viewfinder FOV(v?) and the 
field of view of the user's eye in the vertical plane defined 
by limit lines; 

FIG. 1A shows the view through the viewfinder of FIG. 1 

with typical Soft-focus indistinct frame lines, 

FIG. 2 is a transverse Sectional view through a conven 
tional prior art reverse-Galilean Viewfinder illustrating the 
light path and fields of view of the viewfinder and of the 
user's eye similar to FIG. 1; 

55 

60 

4 

FIG. 2A shows the minified view through the viewfinder 

of FIG. 2 with Soft-focus indistinct frame lines; 

FIG. 3 is a view similar to FIG. 1 of the prior art Albada 

type viewfinder; 

FIG. 3A shows the minified view through the viewfinder 

of FIG. 3 with Superimposed sharply focused reticle; 

FIG. 4 is a lateral croSS Sectional view through a camera 
incorporating my invention including the fields of View of 
the viewfinder and the  user's eye and the  light paths of 
incident light and the reflected light path from the reticle to 
the concave mirror, and the reflected reticle image to the 
users eye in dashed lines, 

FIG. 4A shows the unminified view through the view 

finder of FIG. 4 with sharply focused reticle; 

FIG. 5 is an interior perspective view of the preferred 

embodiment of my invention of FIG. 4; 

FIG. 6 is a partial perspective view of the embodiment of 

FIGS. 4 and 5; 

FIG. 7 is a partial perspective view similar to FIG. 6 of an 

alternate embodiment of my invention; 

FIG. 7A shows the unminified view of the Scene, with 
Sharply focused reticle and slight localized attenuation of the 
Scene due to the radial Struts, 

FIG. 8 is an interior perspective view similar to FIG. 5 of 
another embodiment of my invention employing a different 
form of front opening; 

FIG. 9 is a partial perspective view similar to FIGS. 6 and 

7 of the embodiment of FIG. 8: 

FIG. 9A shows the  unminified view of the scene with 

Sharply focused reticle; 

FIG. 10 is a partial perspective similar to FIGS. 6 and 7 

of an alternate embodiment of my invention; 
FIG. 11 is a lateral cross-sectional view taken slightly off 
center to  clearly  show reflected  light passing through a 
perimeter opening through a camera of the embodiment of 
FIG. 10 and with a user wearing glasses; 

FIG.  12 is  a perspective  view of a camera with the 
viewfinder of my invention partly broken away for clarity; 
FIG. 13 is a horizontal sectional view of a camera with 
Zoom capability which also employs my lensleSS Viewfinder 
invention with corresponding changeable reticle size; 

FIG. 14 is simplified exploded front elevational view of 

the variable aperture elements of viewfinder of FIG. 13; 

FIG. 15 is a reduced size top plan view of a camera of this 
invention in the wide angle lens and Viewfinder position; 
FIG. 16 is a fragmentary front elevational view of the 
changeable aperture feature of my lensleSS Viewfinder on the 
camera of FIG. 13 when in a wide angle configuration; 

FIG. 17 is a reduced size top plan view of a camera of this 
invention in the  normal focal-length lens and Viewfinder 
position; 

FIG. 18 is a fragmentary front elevational view of the 
changeable aperture feature of my lensleSS Viewfinder on the 
camera of FIG. 13 when in a normal focal-length configu 
ration; 

FIG. 19 is a reduced size top plan view of a camera of this 
invention in the telephoto lens and viewfinder position; and 
FIG. 20 is a fragmentary front elevational view of the 
changeable aperture feature of my lensleSS Viewfinder on the 
camera of FIG. 13 when in a telephoto configuration. 

